docs/painless/painless-contexts/painless-sort-context.asciidoc, before:

[[painless-sort-context]]
=== Sort context

Use a Painless script to
{ref}/sort-search-results.html[sort] the documents in a query.

*Variables*

`params` (`Map`, read-only)::
        User-defined parameters passed in as part of the query.

`doc` (`Map`, read-only)::
        Contains the fields of the current document. For single-valued fields,
        the value can be accessed via `doc['fieldname'].value`. For multi-valued
        fields, this returns the first value; other values can be accessed
        via `doc['fieldname'].get(index)`

`_score` (`double` read-only)::
        The similarity score of the current document.

*Return*

`double`::
        The score for the specified document.

*API*

The standard <<painless-api-reference-shared, Painless API>> is available.

*Example*

To run this example, first follow the steps in
<<painless-context-examples, context examples>>.

To sort results by the length of the `theatre` field, submit the following query:

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "sold": "true"
    }
  },
  "sort": {
    "_script": {
      "type": "number",
      "script": {
        "lang": "painless",
        "source": "doc['theatre'].value.length() * params.factor",
        "params": {
          "factor": 1.1
        }
      },
      "order": "asc"
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:seats]

Commit message:

Painless: Mention option to return String in sort context

docs/painless/painless-contexts/painless-sort-context.asciidoc, after:

[[painless-sort-context]]
=== Sort context

Use a Painless script to
{ref}/sort-search-results.html[sort] the documents in a query.

*Variables*

`params` (`Map`, read-only)::
        User-defined parameters passed in as part of the query.

`doc` (`Map`, read-only)::
        Contains the fields of the current document. For single-valued fields,
        the value can be accessed via `doc['fieldname'].value`. For multi-valued
        fields, this returns the first value; other values can be accessed
        via `doc['fieldname'].get(index)`

`_score` (`double` read-only)::
        The similarity score of the current document.

*Return*

`double` or `String`::
        The score for the specified document or a `String` sort key. The return type
        depends on the value of the `type` parameter (`"number"` or `"string"`).

*API*

The standard <<painless-api-reference-shared, Painless API>> is available.

*Example*

To run this example, first follow the steps in
<<painless-context-examples, context examples>>.

To sort results by the length of the `theatre` field, submit the following query:

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "sold": "true"
    }
  },
  "sort": {
    "_script": {
      "type": "number",
      "script": {
        "lang": "painless",
        "source": "doc['theatre'].value.length() * params.factor",
        "params": {
          "factor": 1.1
        }
      },
      "order": "asc"
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:seats]
