docs/reference/ccr/apis/get-ccr-stats.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[ccr-get-stats]]
=== Get {ccr} stats API
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>Get {ccr-init} stats</titleabbrev>
++++

Get {ccr} stats.

[[ccr-get-stats-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

//////////////////////////

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /follower_index/_ccr/follow?wait_for_active_shards=1
{
  "remote_cluster" : "remote_cluster",
  "leader_index" : "leader_index"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTSETUP
// TEST[setup:remote_cluster_and_leader_index]

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /follower_index/_ccr/pause_follow
--------------------------------------------------
// TEARDOWN

//////////////////////////

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_ccr/stats
--------------------------------------------------

==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have `monitor` cluster
privileges on the cluster that contains the follower index. For more information,
see <<security-privileges>>.

[[ccr-get-stats-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

This API gets {ccr} stats. This API will return all stats related to {ccr}. In
particular, this API returns stats about auto-following, and returns the same
shard-level stats as in the <<ccr-get-follow-stats,get follower stats API>>.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[ccr-get-stats-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

//Begin auto_follow_stats
`auto_follow_stats`::
(object) An object representing stats for the auto-follow coordinator.
+
.Properties of `auto_follow_stats`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`number_of_failed_follow_indices`::
(long) The number of indices that the auto-follow coordinator failed to
automatically follow. The causes of recent failures are captured in the logs
of the elected master node and in the
`auto_follow_stats.recent_auto_follow_errors` field.

`number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests`::
(long) The number of times that the auto-follow coordinator failed to retrieve
the cluster state from a remote cluster registered in a collection of
auto-follow patterns.

`number_of_successful_follow_indices`::
(long) The number of indices that the auto-follow coordinator successfully
followed.

`recent_auto_follow_errors`::
(array) An array of objects representing failures by the auto-follow coordinator.
====
//End auto_follow_stats

`follow_stats`::
(object) An object representing shard-level stats for follower indices; refer to
the details of the response in the
<<ccr-get-follow-stats,get follower stats API>>.

[[ccr-get-stats-examples]]
==== {api-examples-title}

This example retrieves {ccr} stats:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_ccr/stats
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following results:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "auto_follow_stats" : {
    "number_of_failed_follow_indices" : 0,
    "number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests" : 0,
    "number_of_successful_follow_indices" : 1,
    "recent_auto_follow_errors" : [],
    "auto_followed_clusters" : []
  },
  "follow_stats" : {
    "indices" : [
      {
        "index" : "follower_index",
        "total_global_checkpoint_lag" : 256,
        "shards" : [
          {
            "remote_cluster" : "remote_cluster",
            "leader_index" : "leader_index",
            "follower_index" : "follower_index",
            "shard_id" : 0,
            "leader_global_checkpoint" : 1024,
            "leader_max_seq_no" : 1536,
            "follower_global_checkpoint" : 768,
            "follower_max_seq_no" : 896,
            "last_requested_seq_no" : 897,
            "outstanding_read_requests" : 8,
            "outstanding_write_requests" : 2,
            "write_buffer_operation_count" : 64,
            "follower_mapping_version" : 4,
            "follower_settings_version" : 2,
            "follower_aliases_version" : 8,
            "total_read_time_millis" : 32768,
            "total_read_remote_exec_time_millis" : 16384,
            "successful_read_requests" : 32,
            "failed_read_requests" : 0,
            "operations_read" : 896,
            "bytes_read" : 32768,
            "total_write_time_millis" : 16384,
            "write_buffer_size_in_bytes" : 1536,
            "successful_write_requests" : 16,
            "failed_write_requests" : 0,
            "operations_written" : 832,
            "read_exceptions" : [ ],
            "time_since_last_read_millis" : 8
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_global_checkpoint_lag" : 256/"total_global_checkpoint_lag" : 0/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_failed_follow_indices" : 0/"number_of_failed_follow_indices" : $body.auto_follow_stats.number_of_failed_follow_indices/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests" : 0/"number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests" : $body.auto_follow_stats.number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_successful_follow_indices" : 1/"number_of_successful_follow_indices" : $body.auto_follow_stats.number_of_successful_follow_indices/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"recent_auto_follow_errors" : \[\]/"recent_auto_follow_errors" : $body.auto_follow_stats.recent_auto_follow_errors/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"auto_followed_clusters" : \[\]/"auto_followed_clusters" : $body.auto_follow_stats.auto_followed_clusters/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"leader_global_checkpoint" : 1024/"leader_global_checkpoint" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.leader_global_checkpoint/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"leader_max_seq_no" : 1536/"leader_max_seq_no" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.leader_max_seq_no/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_global_checkpoint" : 768/"follower_global_checkpoint" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_global_checkpoint/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_max_seq_no" : 896/"follower_max_seq_no" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_max_seq_no/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"last_requested_seq_no" : 897/"last_requested_seq_no" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.last_requested_seq_no/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"outstanding_read_requests" : 8/"outstanding_read_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.outstanding_read_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"outstanding_write_requests" : 2/"outstanding_write_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.outstanding_write_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"write_buffer_operation_count" : 64/"write_buffer_operation_count" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.write_buffer_operation_count/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_mapping_version" : 4/"follower_mapping_version" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_mapping_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_settings_version" : 2/"follower_settings_version" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_settings_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_aliases_version" : 8/"follower_aliases_version" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_aliases_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_read_time_millis" : 32768/"total_read_time_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.total_read_time_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_read_remote_exec_time_millis" : 16384/"total_read_remote_exec_time_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.total_read_remote_exec_time_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful_read_requests" : 32/"successful_read_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.successful_read_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"failed_read_requests" : 0/"failed_read_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.failed_read_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"operations_read" : 896/"operations_read" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.operations_read/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"bytes_read" : 32768/"bytes_read" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.bytes_read/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_write_time_millis" : 16384/"total_write_time_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.total_write_time_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"write_buffer_size_in_bytes" : 1536/"write_buffer_size_in_bytes" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.write_buffer_size_in_bytes/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful_write_requests" : 16/"successful_write_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.successful_write_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"failed_write_requests" : 0/"failed_write_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.failed_write_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"operations_written" : 832/"operations_written" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.operations_written/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"time_since_last_read_millis" : 8/"time_since_last_read_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.time_since_last_read_millis/]

Commit message:

Add timeout param to RestCcrStatsAction

docs/reference/ccr/apis/get-ccr-stats.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[ccr-get-stats]]
=== Get {ccr} stats API
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>Get {ccr-init} stats</titleabbrev>
++++

Get {ccr} stats.

[[ccr-get-stats-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

//////////////////////////

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /follower_index/_ccr/follow?wait_for_active_shards=1
{
  "remote_cluster" : "remote_cluster",
  "leader_index" : "leader_index"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTSETUP
// TEST[setup:remote_cluster_and_leader_index]

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /follower_index/_ccr/pause_follow
--------------------------------------------------
// TEARDOWN

//////////////////////////

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_ccr/stats
--------------------------------------------------

==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have `monitor` cluster
privileges on the cluster that contains the follower index. For more information,
see <<security-privileges>>.

[[ccr-get-stats-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

This API gets {ccr} stats. This API will return all stats related to {ccr}. In
particular, this API returns stats about auto-following, and returns the same
shard-level stats as in the <<ccr-get-follow-stats,get follower stats API>>.

[[ccr-get-stats-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

`timeout`::
(Optional, time) Controls the amount of time to wait for results. Defaults to unlimited.

`master_timeout`::
(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>) Specifies the period of time to wait for
a connection to the master node. If no response is received before the timeout
expires, the request fails and returns an error. Defaults to `30s`.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[ccr-get-stats-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

//Begin auto_follow_stats
`auto_follow_stats`::
(object) An object representing stats for the auto-follow coordinator.
+
.Properties of `auto_follow_stats`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`number_of_failed_follow_indices`::
(long) The number of indices that the auto-follow coordinator failed to
automatically follow. The causes of recent failures are captured in the logs
of the elected master node and in the
`auto_follow_stats.recent_auto_follow_errors` field.

`number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests`::
(long) The number of times that the auto-follow coordinator failed to retrieve
the cluster state from a remote cluster registered in a collection of
auto-follow patterns.

`number_of_successful_follow_indices`::
(long) The number of indices that the auto-follow coordinator successfully
followed.

`recent_auto_follow_errors`::
(array) An array of objects representing failures by the auto-follow coordinator.
====
//End auto_follow_stats

`follow_stats`::
(object) An object representing shard-level stats for follower indices; refer to
the details of the response in the
<<ccr-get-follow-stats,get follower stats API>>.

[[ccr-get-stats-examples]]
==== {api-examples-title}

This example retrieves {ccr} stats:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_ccr/stats
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following results:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "auto_follow_stats" : {
    "number_of_failed_follow_indices" : 0,
    "number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests" : 0,
    "number_of_successful_follow_indices" : 1,
    "recent_auto_follow_errors" : [],
    "auto_followed_clusters" : []
  },
  "follow_stats" : {
    "indices" : [
      {
        "index" : "follower_index",
        "total_global_checkpoint_lag" : 256,
        "shards" : [
          {
            "remote_cluster" : "remote_cluster",
            "leader_index" : "leader_index",
            "follower_index" : "follower_index",
            "shard_id" : 0,
            "leader_global_checkpoint" : 1024,
            "leader_max_seq_no" : 1536,
            "follower_global_checkpoint" : 768,
            "follower_max_seq_no" : 896,
            "last_requested_seq_no" : 897,
            "outstanding_read_requests" : 8,
            "outstanding_write_requests" : 2,
            "write_buffer_operation_count" : 64,
            "follower_mapping_version" : 4,
            "follower_settings_version" : 2,
            "follower_aliases_version" : 8,
            "total_read_time_millis" : 32768,
            "total_read_remote_exec_time_millis" : 16384,
            "successful_read_requests" : 32,
            "failed_read_requests" : 0,
            "operations_read" : 896,
            "bytes_read" : 32768,
            "total_write_time_millis" : 16384,
            "write_buffer_size_in_bytes" : 1536,
            "successful_write_requests" : 16,
            "failed_write_requests" : 0,
            "operations_written" : 832,
            "read_exceptions" : [ ],
            "time_since_last_read_millis" : 8
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_global_checkpoint_lag" : 256/"total_global_checkpoint_lag" : 0/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_failed_follow_indices" : 0/"number_of_failed_follow_indices" : $body.auto_follow_stats.number_of_failed_follow_indices/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests" : 0/"number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests" : $body.auto_follow_stats.number_of_failed_remote_cluster_state_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_successful_follow_indices" : 1/"number_of_successful_follow_indices" : $body.auto_follow_stats.number_of_successful_follow_indices/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"recent_auto_follow_errors" : \[\]/"recent_auto_follow_errors" : $body.auto_follow_stats.recent_auto_follow_errors/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"auto_followed_clusters" : \[\]/"auto_followed_clusters" : $body.auto_follow_stats.auto_followed_clusters/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"leader_global_checkpoint" : 1024/"leader_global_checkpoint" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.leader_global_checkpoint/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"leader_max_seq_no" : 1536/"leader_max_seq_no" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.leader_max_seq_no/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_global_checkpoint" : 768/"follower_global_checkpoint" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_global_checkpoint/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_max_seq_no" : 896/"follower_max_seq_no" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_max_seq_no/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"last_requested_seq_no" : 897/"last_requested_seq_no" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.last_requested_seq_no/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"outstanding_read_requests" : 8/"outstanding_read_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.outstanding_read_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"outstanding_write_requests" : 2/"outstanding_write_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.outstanding_write_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"write_buffer_operation_count" : 64/"write_buffer_operation_count" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.write_buffer_operation_count/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_mapping_version" : 4/"follower_mapping_version" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_mapping_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_settings_version" : 2/"follower_settings_version" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_settings_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"follower_aliases_version" : 8/"follower_aliases_version" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.follower_aliases_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_read_time_millis" : 32768/"total_read_time_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.total_read_time_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_read_remote_exec_time_millis" : 16384/"total_read_remote_exec_time_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.total_read_remote_exec_time_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful_read_requests" : 32/"successful_read_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.successful_read_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"failed_read_requests" : 0/"failed_read_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.failed_read_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"operations_read" : 896/"operations_read" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.operations_read/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"bytes_read" : 32768/"bytes_read" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.bytes_read/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total_write_time_millis" : 16384/"total_write_time_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.total_write_time_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"write_buffer_size_in_bytes" : 1536/"write_buffer_size_in_bytes" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.write_buffer_size_in_bytes/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful_write_requests" : 16/"successful_write_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.successful_write_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"failed_write_requests" : 0/"failed_write_requests" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.failed_write_requests/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"operations_written" : 832/"operations_written" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.operations_written/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"time_since_last_read_millis" : 8/"time_since_last_read_millis" : $body.follow_stats.indices.0.shards.0.time_since_last_read_millis/]
