docs/reference/search/search-your-data/knn-search.asciidoc, before:

[[knn-search]]
== k-nearest neighbor (kNN) search
++++
<titleabbrev>kNN search</titleabbrev>
++++

//tag::knn-def[]
A _k-nearest neighbor_ (kNN) search finds the _k_ nearest vectors to a query
vector, as measured by a similarity metric.
//end::knn-def[]

Common use cases for kNN include:

* Relevance ranking based on natural language processing (NLP) algorithms
* Product recommendations and recommendation engines
* Similarity search for images or videos

[discrete]
[[knn-prereqs]]
=== Prerequisites

* To run a kNN search, you must be able to convert your data into meaningful
vector values. You create these vectors outside of {es} and add them to
documents as <<dense-vector,`dense_vector`>> field values. Queries are
represented as vectors with the same dimension.
+
Design your vectors so that the closer a document's vector is to a query vector,
based on a similarity metric, the better its match.

* To complete the steps in this guide, you must have the following
<<privileges-list-indices,index privileges>>:

** `create_index` or `manage` to create an index with a `dense_vector` field
** `create`, `index`, or `write` to add data to the index you created
** `read` to search the index

[discrete]
[[knn-methods]]
=== kNN methods

{es} supports two methods for kNN search:

* <<approximate-knn,Approximate kNN>> using the `knn` search
option

* <<exact-knn,Exact, brute-force kNN>> using a `script_score` query with a
vector function

In most cases, you'll want to use approximate kNN. Approximate kNN offers lower
latency at the cost of slower indexing and imperfect accuracy.

Exact, brute-force kNN guarantees accurate results but doesn't scale well with
large datasets. With this approach, a `script_score` query must scan each
matching document to compute the vector function, which can result in slow
search speeds. However, you can improve latency by using a <<query-dsl,query>>
to limit the number of matching documents passed to the function. If you
filter your data to a small subset of documents, you can get good search
performance using this approach.

[discrete]
[[approximate-knn]]
=== Approximate kNN

WARNING: Compared to other types of search, approximate kNN search has specific
resource requirements. In particular, all vector data must fit in the node's
page cache for it to be efficient. Please consult the
<<tune-knn-search, approximate kNN search tuning guide>> for important notes on
configuration and sizing.

To run an approximate kNN search, use the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>
to search one or more `dense_vector` fields with indexing enabled.

. Explicitly map one or more `dense_vector` fields. Approximate kNN search
requires the following mapping options:
+
--
* An `index` value of `true`.

* A `similarity` value. This value determines the similarity metric used to
score documents based on similarity between the query and document vector. For a
list of available metrics, see the <<dense-vector-similarity,`similarity`>>
parameter documentation.

[source,console]
----
PUT image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 3,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm"
      },
      "title-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 5,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm"
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "file-type": {
        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--

. Index your data.
+
[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "image-vector": [1, 5, -20], "title-vector": [12, 50, -10, 0, 1], "title": "moose family", "file-type": "jpg" }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "image-vector": [42, 8, -15], "title-vector": [25, 1, 4, -12, 2], "title": "alpine lake", "file-type": "png" }
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "image-vector": [15, 11, 23], "title-vector": [1, 5, 25, 50, 20], "title": "full moon", "file-type": "jpg" }
...
----
//TEST[continued]
//TEST[s/\.\.\.//]

. Run the search using the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>.
+
[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 100
  },
  "fields": [ "title", "file-type" ]
}
----
//TEST[continued]
// TEST[s/"k": 10/"k": 3/]
// TEST[s/"num_candidates": 100/"num_candidates": 3/]

The <<search-api-response-body-score,document `_score`>> is determined by
the similarity between the query and document vector. See
<<dense-vector-similarity, `similarity`>> for more information on how kNN
search scores are computed.

NOTE: Support for approximate kNN search was added in version 8.0. Before
this, `dense_vector` fields did not support enabling `index` in the mapping.
If you created an index prior to 8.0 containing `dense_vector` fields, then to
support approximate kNN search the data must be reindexed using a new field
mapping that sets `index: true`.

[discrete]
[[tune-approximate-knn-for-speed-accuracy]]
==== Tune approximate kNN for speed or accuracy

To gather results, the kNN search API finds a `num_candidates` number of
approximate nearest neighbor candidates on each shard. The search computes the
similarity of these candidate vectors to the query vector, selecting the `k`
most similar results from each shard. The search then merges the results from
each shard to return the global top `k` nearest neighbors.

You can increase `num_candidates` for more accurate results at the cost of
slower search speeds. A search with a high value for `num_candidates`
considers more candidates from each shard. This takes more time, but the
search has a higher probability of finding the true `k` top nearest neighbors.

Similarly, you can decrease `num_candidates` for faster searches with
potentially less accurate results.

[discrete]
[[approximate-knn-using-byte-vectors]]
==== Approximate kNN using byte vectors

The approximate kNN search API supports `byte` value vectors in
addition to `float` value vectors. Use the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>
to search a `dense_vector` field with <<dense-vector-params, `element_type`>> set to
`byte` and indexing enabled.

. Explicitly map one or more `dense_vector` fields with
<<dense-vector-params, `element_type`>> set to `byte` and indexing enabled.
+
[source,console]
----
PUT byte-image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "byte-image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "element_type": "byte",
        "dims": 2,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "cosine"
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

. Index your data ensuring all vector values
are integers within the range [-128, 127].
+
[source,console]
----
POST byte-image-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "byte-image-vector": [5, -20], "title": "moose family" }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "byte-image-vector": [8, -15], "title": "alpine lake" }
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "byte-image-vector": [11, 23], "title": "full moon" }
----
//TEST[continued]

. Run the search using the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>
ensuring the `query_vector` values are integers within the
range [-128, 127].
+
[source,console]
----
POST byte-image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "byte-image-vector",
    "query_vector": [-5, 9],
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 100
  },
  "fields": [ "title" ]
}
----
// TEST[continued]
// TEST[s/"k": 10/"k": 3/]
// TEST[s/"num_candidates": 100/"num_candidates": 3/]

[discrete]
[[knn-search-filter-example]]
==== Filtered kNN search

The kNN search API supports restricting the search using a filter. The search
will return the top `k` documents that also match the filter query.

The following request performs an approximate kNN search filtered by the
`file-type` field:

[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [54, 10, -2],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "filter": {
      "term": {
        "file-type": "png"
      }
    }
  },
  "fields": ["title"],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[continued]

NOTE: The filter is applied **during** the approximate kNN search to ensure
that `k` matching documents are returned. This contrasts with a
post-filtering approach, where the filter is applied **after** the approximate
kNN search completes. Post-filtering has the downside that it sometimes
returns fewer than k results, even when there are enough matching documents.

[discrete]
==== Combine approximate kNN with other features

You can perform 'hybrid retrieval' by providing both the
<<search-api-knn, `knn` option>> and a <<request-body-search-query, `query`>>:

[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": {
        "query": "mountain lake",
        "boost": 0.9
      }
    }
  },
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [54, 10, -2],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "boost": 0.1
  },
  "size": 10
}
----
// TEST[continued]

This search finds the global top `k = 5` vector matches, combines them with the matches from the `match` query, and
finally returns the 10 top-scoring results. The `knn` and `query` matches are combined through a disjunction, as if you
took a boolean 'or' between them. The top `k` vector results represent the global nearest neighbors across all index
shards.

The score of each hit is the sum of the `knn` and `query` scores. You can specify a `boost` value to give a weight to
each score in the sum. In the example above, the scores will be calculated as

```
score = 0.9 * match_score + 0.1 * knn_score
```

The `knn` option can also be used with <<search-aggregations, `aggregations`>>.
In general, {es} computes aggregations over all documents that match the search.
So for approximate kNN search, aggregations are calculated on the top `k`
nearest documents. If the search also includes a `query`, then aggregations are
calculated on the combined set of `knn` and `query` matches.

[discrete]
[[semantic-search]]
==== Perform semantic search

kNN search enables you to perform semantic search by using a previously deployed
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-search-compare.html#ml-nlp-text-embedding[text embedding model].
Instead of literal matching on search terms, semantic search retrieves results
based on the intent and the contextual meaning of a search query.

Under the hood, the text embedding NLP model generates a dense vector from the
input query string called `model_text` you provide. Then, it is searched
against an index containing dense vectors created with the same text embedding
{ml} model. The search results are semantically similar as learned by the model.

[IMPORTANT]
=====================
To perform semantic search:

* you need an index that contains the dense vector representation of the input
data to search against,

* you must use the same text embedding model for search that you used to create
the dense vectors from the input data,

* the text embedding NLP model deployment must be started.
=====================

Reference the deployed text embedding model or the model deployment in the 
`query_vector_builder` object and provide the search query as `model_text`:

[source,js]
----
(...)
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "dense-vector-field",
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 100,
    "query_vector_builder": {
      "text_embedding": { <1>
        "model_id": "my-text-embedding-model", <2>
        "model_text": "The opposite of blue" <3>
      }
    }
  }
}
(...)
----
// NOTCONSOLE

<1> The {nlp} task to perform. It must be `text_embedding`.
<2> The ID of the text embedding model to use to generate the dense vectors from
the query string. Use the same model that generated the embeddings from the
input text in the index you search against. You can use the value of the 
`deployment_id` instead in the `model_id` argument. 
<3> The query string from which the model generates the dense vector
representation.

For more information on how to deploy a trained model and use it to create text
embeddings, refer to this
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-text-emb-vector-search-example.html[end-to-end example].


[discrete]
==== Search multiple kNN fields

In addition to 'hybrid retrieval', you can search more than one kNN vector field at a time:

[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": {
        "query": "mountain lake",
        "boost": 0.9
      }
    }
  },
  "knn": [ {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [54, 10, -2],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "boost": 0.1
  },
  {
    "field": "title-vector",
    "query_vector": [1, 20, -52, 23, 10],
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 10,
    "boost": 0.5
  }],
  "size": 10
}
----
// TEST[continued]

This search finds the global top `k = 5` vector matches for `image-vector` and the global `k = 10` for the `title-vector`.
These top values are then combined with the matches from the `match` query and the top-10 documents are returned.
The multiple `knn` entries and the `query` matches are combined through a disjunction,
as if you took a boolean 'or' between them. The top `k` vector results represent the global nearest neighbors across
all index shards.

The scoring for a doc with the above configured boosts would be:

```
score = 0.9 * match_score + 0.1 * knn_score_image-vector + 0.5 * knn_score_title-vector
```

[discrete]
==== Search kNN with expected similarity

While kNN is a powerful tool, it always tries to return `k` nearest neighbors. Consequently, when using `knn` with
a `filter`, you could filter out all relevant documents and only have irrelevant ones left to search. In that situation,
`knn` will still do its best to return `k` nearest neighbors, even though those neighbors could be far away in the
vector space.

To alleviate this worry, there is a `similarity` parameter available in the `knn` clause. This value is the required
minimum similarity for a vector to be considered a match. The `knn` search flow with this parameter is as follows:

--
* Apply any user provided `filter` queries
* Explore the vector space to get `k` vectors
* Do not return any vectors that are further away than the configured `similarity`
--

Here is an example. In this example we search for the given `query_vector` for `k` nearest neighbors. However, with
`filter` applied and requiring that the found vectors have at least the provided `similarity` between them.
[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [1, 5, -20],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "similarity": 36,
    "filter": {
      "term": {
        "file-type": "png"
      }
    }
  },
  "fields": ["title"],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[continued]

In our data set, the only document with the file type of `png` has a vector of `[42, 8, -15]`. The `l2_norm` distance
between `[42, 8, -15]` and `[1, 5, -20]` is `41.412`, which is greater than the configured similarity of `36`. Meaning,
this search will return no hits.

[discrete]
[[knn-indexing-considerations]]
==== Indexing considerations

For approximate kNN search, {es} stores the dense vector values of each
segment as an https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.09320[HNSW graph]. Indexing vectors for
approximate kNN search can take substantial time because of how expensive it is
to build these graphs. You may need to increase the client request timeout for
index and bulk requests. The <<tune-knn-search, approximate kNN tuning guide>>
contains important guidance around indexing performance, and how the index
configuration can affect search performance.

In addition to its search-time tuning parameters, the HNSW algorithm has
index-time parameters that trade off between the cost of building the graph,
search speed, and accuracy. When setting up the `dense_vector` mapping, you
can use the <<dense-vector-index-options, `index_options`>> argument to adjust
these parameters:

[source,console]
----
PUT image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 3,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm",
        "index_options": {
          "type": "hnsw",
          "m": 32,
          "ef_construction": 100
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

[discrete]
[[approximate-knn-limitations]]
==== Limitations for approximate kNN search

* You can't run an approximate kNN search on a `dense_vector` field within a
<<nested,`nested`>> mapping.

* When using kNN search in <<modules-cross-cluster-search,{ccs}>>, the <<ccs-min-roundtrips,`ccs_minimize_roundtrips`>>
option is not supported.

* {blank}
include::{es-repo-dir}/search/knn-search.asciidoc[tag=hnsw-algorithm]

NOTE: Approximate kNN search always uses the
<<dfs-query-then-fetch,`dfs_query_then_fetch`>> search type in order to gather
the global top `k` matches across shards. You cannot set the
`search_type` explicitly when running kNN search.

[discrete]
[[exact-knn]]
=== Exact kNN

To run an exact kNN search, use a `script_score` query with a vector function.

. Explicitly map one or more `dense_vector` fields. If you don't intend to use
the field for approximate kNN, omit the `index` mapping option or set it to
`false`. This can significantly improve indexing speed.
+
[source,console]
----
PUT product-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "product-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 5,
        "index": false
      },
      "price": {
        "type": "long"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

. Index your data.
+
[source,console]
----
POST product-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "product-vector": [230.0, 300.33, -34.8988, 15.555, -200.0], "price": 1599 }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "product-vector": [-0.5, 100.0, -13.0, 14.8, -156.0], "price": 799 }
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "product-vector": [0.5, 111.3, -13.0, 14.8, -156.0], "price": 1099 }
...
----
//TEST[continued]
//TEST[s/\.\.\.//]

. Use the <<search-search,search API>> to run a `script_score` query containing
a <<vector-functions,vector function>>.
+
TIP: To limit the number of matched documents passed to the vector function, we
recommend you specify a filter query in the `script_score.query` parameter. If
needed, you can use a <<query-dsl-match-all-query,`match_all` query>> in this
parameter to match all documents. However, matching all documents can
significantly increase search latency.
+
[source,console]
----
POST product-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query" : {
        "bool" : {
          "filter" : {
            "range" : {
              "price" : {
                "gte": 1000
              }
            }
          }
        }
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "cosineSimilarity(params.queryVector, 'product-vector') + 1.0",
        "params": {
          "queryVector": [-0.5, 90.0, -10, 14.8, -156.0]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Clarify that dense vectors can be created with ES (#97636) (#97648)
* [DOCS] Clarify that dense vectors can be created with ES

* Fix rendering issue

* Break up long sentence

docs/reference/search/search-your-data/knn-search.asciidoc, after:

[[knn-search]]
== k-nearest neighbor (kNN) search
++++
<titleabbrev>kNN search</titleabbrev>
++++

//tag::knn-def[]
A _k-nearest neighbor_ (kNN) search finds the _k_ nearest vectors to a query
vector, as measured by a similarity metric.
//end::knn-def[]

Common use cases for kNN include:

* Relevance ranking based on natural language processing (NLP) algorithms
* Product recommendations and recommendation engines
* Similarity search for images or videos

[discrete]
[[knn-prereqs]]
=== Prerequisites

* To run a kNN search, you must be able to convert your data into meaningful
vector values. You can
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-text-emb-vector-search-example.html[create these vectors using
a natural language processing (NLP) model in {es}], or generate them outside
{es}. Vectors can be added to documents as <<dense-vector,`dense_vector`>> field
values. Queries are represented as vectors with the same dimension.
+
Design your vectors so that the closer a document's vector is to a query vector,
based on a similarity metric, the better its match.

* To complete the steps in this guide, you must have the following
<<privileges-list-indices,index privileges>>:

** `create_index` or `manage` to create an index with a `dense_vector` field
** `create`, `index`, or `write` to add data to the index you created
** `read` to search the index

[discrete]
[[knn-methods]]
=== kNN methods

{es} supports two methods for kNN search:

* <<approximate-knn,Approximate kNN>> using the `knn` search
option

* <<exact-knn,Exact, brute-force kNN>> using a `script_score` query with a
vector function

In most cases, you'll want to use approximate kNN. Approximate kNN offers lower
latency at the cost of slower indexing and imperfect accuracy.

Exact, brute-force kNN guarantees accurate results but doesn't scale well with
large datasets. With this approach, a `script_score` query must scan each
matching document to compute the vector function, which can result in slow
search speeds. However, you can improve latency by using a <<query-dsl,query>>
to limit the number of matching documents passed to the function. If you
filter your data to a small subset of documents, you can get good search
performance using this approach.

[discrete]
[[approximate-knn]]
=== Approximate kNN

WARNING: Compared to other types of search, approximate kNN search has specific
resource requirements. In particular, all vector data must fit in the node's
page cache for it to be efficient. Please consult the
<<tune-knn-search, approximate kNN search tuning guide>> for important notes on
configuration and sizing.

To run an approximate kNN search, use the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>
to search one or more `dense_vector` fields with indexing enabled.

. Explicitly map one or more `dense_vector` fields. Approximate kNN search
requires the following mapping options:
+
--
* An `index` value of `true`.

* A `similarity` value. This value determines the similarity metric used to
score documents based on similarity between the query and document vector. For a
list of available metrics, see the <<dense-vector-similarity,`similarity`>>
parameter documentation.

[source,console]
----
PUT image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 3,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm"
      },
      "title-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 5,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm"
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "file-type": {
        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--

. Index your data.
+
[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "image-vector": [1, 5, -20], "title-vector": [12, 50, -10, 0, 1], "title": "moose family", "file-type": "jpg" }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "image-vector": [42, 8, -15], "title-vector": [25, 1, 4, -12, 2], "title": "alpine lake", "file-type": "png" }
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "image-vector": [15, 11, 23], "title-vector": [1, 5, 25, 50, 20], "title": "full moon", "file-type": "jpg" }
...
----
//TEST[continued]
//TEST[s/\.\.\.//]

. Run the search using the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>.
+
[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 100
  },
  "fields": [ "title", "file-type" ]
}
----
//TEST[continued]
// TEST[s/"k": 10/"k": 3/]
// TEST[s/"num_candidates": 100/"num_candidates": 3/]

The <<search-api-response-body-score,document `_score`>> is determined by
the similarity between the query and document vector. See
<<dense-vector-similarity, `similarity`>> for more information on how kNN
search scores are computed.

NOTE: Support for approximate kNN search was added in version 8.0. Before
this, `dense_vector` fields did not support enabling `index` in the mapping.
If you created an index prior to 8.0 containing `dense_vector` fields, then to
support approximate kNN search the data must be reindexed using a new field
mapping that sets `index: true`.

[discrete]
[[tune-approximate-knn-for-speed-accuracy]]
==== Tune approximate kNN for speed or accuracy

To gather results, the kNN search API finds a `num_candidates` number of
approximate nearest neighbor candidates on each shard. The search computes the
similarity of these candidate vectors to the query vector, selecting the `k`
most similar results from each shard. The search then merges the results from
each shard to return the global top `k` nearest neighbors.

You can increase `num_candidates` for more accurate results at the cost of
slower search speeds. A search with a high value for `num_candidates`
considers more candidates from each shard. This takes more time, but the
search has a higher probability of finding the true `k` top nearest neighbors.

Similarly, you can decrease `num_candidates` for faster searches with
potentially less accurate results.

[discrete]
[[approximate-knn-using-byte-vectors]]
==== Approximate kNN using byte vectors

The approximate kNN search API supports `byte` value vectors in
addition to `float` value vectors. Use the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>
to search a `dense_vector` field with <<dense-vector-params, `element_type`>> set to
`byte` and indexing enabled.

. Explicitly map one or more `dense_vector` fields with
<<dense-vector-params, `element_type`>> set to `byte` and indexing enabled.
+
[source,console]
----
PUT byte-image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "byte-image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "element_type": "byte",
        "dims": 2,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "cosine"
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

. Index your data ensuring all vector values
are integers within the range [-128, 127].
+
[source,console]
----
POST byte-image-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "byte-image-vector": [5, -20], "title": "moose family" }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "byte-image-vector": [8, -15], "title": "alpine lake" }
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "byte-image-vector": [11, 23], "title": "full moon" }
----
//TEST[continued]

. Run the search using the <<search-api-knn, `knn` option>>
ensuring the `query_vector` values are integers within the
range [-128, 127].
+
[source,console]
----
POST byte-image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "byte-image-vector",
    "query_vector": [-5, 9],
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 100
  },
  "fields": [ "title" ]
}
----
// TEST[continued]
// TEST[s/"k": 10/"k": 3/]
// TEST[s/"num_candidates": 100/"num_candidates": 3/]

[discrete]
[[knn-search-filter-example]]
==== Filtered kNN search

The kNN search API supports restricting the search using a filter. The search
will return the top `k` documents that also match the filter query.

The following request performs an approximate kNN search filtered by the
`file-type` field:

[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [54, 10, -2],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "filter": {
      "term": {
        "file-type": "png"
      }
    }
  },
  "fields": ["title"],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[continued]

NOTE: The filter is applied **during** the approximate kNN search to ensure
that `k` matching documents are returned. This contrasts with a
post-filtering approach, where the filter is applied **after** the approximate
kNN search completes. Post-filtering has the downside that it sometimes
returns fewer than k results, even when there are enough matching documents.

[discrete]
==== Combine approximate kNN with other features

You can perform 'hybrid retrieval' by providing both the
<<search-api-knn, `knn` option>> and a <<request-body-search-query, `query`>>:

[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": {
        "query": "mountain lake",
        "boost": 0.9
      }
    }
  },
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [54, 10, -2],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "boost": 0.1
  },
  "size": 10
}
----
// TEST[continued]

This search finds the global top `k = 5` vector matches, combines them with the matches from the `match` query, and
finally returns the 10 top-scoring results. The `knn` and `query` matches are combined through a disjunction, as if you
took a boolean 'or' between them. The top `k` vector results represent the global nearest neighbors across all index
shards.

The score of each hit is the sum of the `knn` and `query` scores. You can specify a `boost` value to give a weight to
each score in the sum. In the example above, the scores will be calculated as

```
score = 0.9 * match_score + 0.1 * knn_score
```

The `knn` option can also be used with <<search-aggregations, `aggregations`>>.
In general, {es} computes aggregations over all documents that match the search.
So for approximate kNN search, aggregations are calculated on the top `k`
nearest documents. If the search also includes a `query`, then aggregations are
calculated on the combined set of `knn` and `query` matches.

[discrete]
[[semantic-search]]
==== Perform semantic search

kNN search enables you to perform semantic search by using a previously deployed
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-search-compare.html#ml-nlp-text-embedding[text embedding model].
Instead of literal matching on search terms, semantic search retrieves results
based on the intent and the contextual meaning of a search query.

Under the hood, the text embedding NLP model generates a dense vector from the
input query string called `model_text` you provide. Then, it is searched
against an index containing dense vectors created with the same text embedding
{ml} model. The search results are semantically similar as learned by the model.

[IMPORTANT]
=====================
To perform semantic search:

* you need an index that contains the dense vector representation of the input
data to search against,

* you must use the same text embedding model for search that you used to create
the dense vectors from the input data,

* the text embedding NLP model deployment must be started.
=====================

Reference the deployed text embedding model or the model deployment in the 
`query_vector_builder` object and provide the search query as `model_text`:

[source,js]
----
(...)
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "dense-vector-field",
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 100,
    "query_vector_builder": {
      "text_embedding": { <1>
        "model_id": "my-text-embedding-model", <2>
        "model_text": "The opposite of blue" <3>
      }
    }
  }
}
(...)
----
// NOTCONSOLE

<1> The {nlp} task to perform. It must be `text_embedding`.
<2> The ID of the text embedding model to use to generate the dense vectors from
the query string. Use the same model that generated the embeddings from the
input text in the index you search against. You can use the value of the 
`deployment_id` instead in the `model_id` argument. 
<3> The query string from which the model generates the dense vector
representation.

For more information on how to deploy a trained model and use it to create text
embeddings, refer to this
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-text-emb-vector-search-example.html[end-to-end example].


[discrete]
==== Search multiple kNN fields

In addition to 'hybrid retrieval', you can search more than one kNN vector field at a time:

[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": {
        "query": "mountain lake",
        "boost": 0.9
      }
    }
  },
  "knn": [ {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [54, 10, -2],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "boost": 0.1
  },
  {
    "field": "title-vector",
    "query_vector": [1, 20, -52, 23, 10],
    "k": 10,
    "num_candidates": 10,
    "boost": 0.5
  }],
  "size": 10
}
----
// TEST[continued]

This search finds the global top `k = 5` vector matches for `image-vector` and the global `k = 10` for the `title-vector`.
These top values are then combined with the matches from the `match` query and the top-10 documents are returned.
The multiple `knn` entries and the `query` matches are combined through a disjunction,
as if you took a boolean 'or' between them. The top `k` vector results represent the global nearest neighbors across
all index shards.

The scoring for a doc with the above configured boosts would be:

```
score = 0.9 * match_score + 0.1 * knn_score_image-vector + 0.5 * knn_score_title-vector
```

[discrete]
==== Search kNN with expected similarity

While kNN is a powerful tool, it always tries to return `k` nearest neighbors. Consequently, when using `knn` with
a `filter`, you could filter out all relevant documents and only have irrelevant ones left to search. In that situation,
`knn` will still do its best to return `k` nearest neighbors, even though those neighbors could be far away in the
vector space.

To alleviate this worry, there is a `similarity` parameter available in the `knn` clause. This value is the required
minimum similarity for a vector to be considered a match. The `knn` search flow with this parameter is as follows:

--
* Apply any user provided `filter` queries
* Explore the vector space to get `k` vectors
* Do not return any vectors that are further away than the configured `similarity`
--

Here is an example. In this example we search for the given `query_vector` for `k` nearest neighbors. However, with
`filter` applied and requiring that the found vectors have at least the provided `similarity` between them.
[source,console]
----
POST image-index/_search
{
  "knn": {
    "field": "image-vector",
    "query_vector": [1, 5, -20],
    "k": 5,
    "num_candidates": 50,
    "similarity": 36,
    "filter": {
      "term": {
        "file-type": "png"
      }
    }
  },
  "fields": ["title"],
  "_source": false
}
----
// TEST[continued]

In our data set, the only document with the file type of `png` has a vector of `[42, 8, -15]`. The `l2_norm` distance
between `[42, 8, -15]` and `[1, 5, -20]` is `41.412`, which is greater than the configured similarity of `36`. Meaning,
this search will return no hits.

[discrete]
[[knn-indexing-considerations]]
==== Indexing considerations

For approximate kNN search, {es} stores the dense vector values of each
segment as an https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.09320[HNSW graph]. Indexing vectors for
approximate kNN search can take substantial time because of how expensive it is
to build these graphs. You may need to increase the client request timeout for
index and bulk requests. The <<tune-knn-search, approximate kNN tuning guide>>
contains important guidance around indexing performance, and how the index
configuration can affect search performance.

In addition to its search-time tuning parameters, the HNSW algorithm has
index-time parameters that trade off between the cost of building the graph,
search speed, and accuracy. When setting up the `dense_vector` mapping, you
can use the <<dense-vector-index-options, `index_options`>> argument to adjust
these parameters:

[source,console]
----
PUT image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 3,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm",
        "index_options": {
          "type": "hnsw",
          "m": 32,
          "ef_construction": 100
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

[discrete]
[[approximate-knn-limitations]]
==== Limitations for approximate kNN search

* You can't run an approximate kNN search on a `dense_vector` field within a
<<nested,`nested`>> mapping.

* When using kNN search in <<modules-cross-cluster-search,{ccs}>>, the <<ccs-min-roundtrips,`ccs_minimize_roundtrips`>>
option is not supported.

* {blank}
include::{es-repo-dir}/search/knn-search.asciidoc[tag=hnsw-algorithm]

NOTE: Approximate kNN search always uses the
<<dfs-query-then-fetch,`dfs_query_then_fetch`>> search type in order to gather
the global top `k` matches across shards. You cannot set the
`search_type` explicitly when running kNN search.

[discrete]
[[exact-knn]]
=== Exact kNN

To run an exact kNN search, use a `script_score` query with a vector function.

. Explicitly map one or more `dense_vector` fields. If you don't intend to use
the field for approximate kNN, omit the `index` mapping option or set it to
`false`. This can significantly improve indexing speed.
+
[source,console]
----
PUT product-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "product-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 5,
        "index": false
      },
      "price": {
        "type": "long"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

. Index your data.
+
[source,console]
----
POST product-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "product-vector": [230.0, 300.33, -34.8988, 15.555, -200.0], "price": 1599 }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "product-vector": [-0.5, 100.0, -13.0, 14.8, -156.0], "price": 799 }
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "product-vector": [0.5, 111.3, -13.0, 14.8, -156.0], "price": 1099 }
...
----
//TEST[continued]
//TEST[s/\.\.\.//]

. Use the <<search-search,search API>> to run a `script_score` query containing
a <<vector-functions,vector function>>.
+
TIP: To limit the number of matched documents passed to the vector function, we
recommend you specify a filter query in the `script_score.query` parameter. If
needed, you can use a <<query-dsl-match-all-query,`match_all` query>> in this
parameter to match all documents. However, matching all documents can
significantly increase search latency.
+
[source,console]
----
POST product-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query" : {
        "bool" : {
          "filter" : {
            "range" : {
              "price" : {
                "gte": 1000
              }
            }
          }
        }
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "cosineSimilarity(params.queryVector, 'product-vector') + 1.0",
        "params": {
          "queryVector": [-0.5, 90.0, -10, 14.8, -156.0]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]
