docs/reference/search/search-your-data/semantic-search-elser.asciidoc, before:

[[semantic-search-elser]]
== Tutorial: semantic search with ELSER
++++
<titleabbrev>Semantic search with ELSER</titleabbrev>
++++

Elastic Learned Sparse EncodeR - or ELSER - is an NLP model trained by Elastic 
that enables you to perform semantic search by using sparse vector 
representation. Instead of literal matching on search terms, semantic search 
retrieves results based on the intent and the contextual meaning of a search 
query.

The instructions in this tutorial shows you how to use ELSER to perform semantic 
search on your data.

NOTE: Only the first 512 extracted tokens per field are considered during 
semantic search with ELSER v1. Refer to 
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-limitations.html#ml-nlp-elser-v1-limit-512[this page] for more 
information.


[discrete]
[[requirements]]
=== Requirements

To perform semantic search by using ELSER, you must have the NLP model deployed 
in your cluster. Refer to the 
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-elser.html[ELSER documentation] to learn how to download and 
deploy the model.


[discrete]
[[elser-mappings]]
=== Create the index mapping

First, the mapping of the destination index - the index that contains the tokens 
that the model created based on your text - must be created.  The destination 
index must have a field with the <<rank-features, `rank_features`>> field type 
to index the ELSER output.

NOTE: ELSER output must be ingested into a field with the `rank_features` field 
type. Otherwise, {es} interprets the token-weight pairs as a massive amount of 
fields in a document. If you get an error similar to this `"Limit of total fields [1000] has been exceeded while adding
new fields"` then the ELSER output field is not mapped properly and it has a 
field type different than `rank_features`.

[source,console]
----
PUT my-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "ml.tokens": {
        "type": "rank_features" <1>
      },
      "text": { <2>
        "type": "text" <3>
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> The field that contains the prediction is a `rank_features` field.
<2> The name of the field from which to create the sparse vector representation. 
In this example, the name of the field is `text`.
<3> The field type which is text in this example.


[discrete]
[[inference-ingest-pipeline]]
=== Create an ingest pipeline with an inference processor

Create an <<ingest,ingest pipeline>> with an 
<<inference-processor,{infer} processor>> to use ELSER to infer against the data 
that is being ingested in the pipeline.

[source,console]
----
PUT _ingest/pipeline/elser-v1-test
{
  "processors": [
    {
      "inference": {
        "model_id": ".elser_model_1",
        "target_field": "ml",
        "field_map": { <1>
          "text": "text_field"
        },
        "inference_config": {
          "text_expansion": { <2>
            "results_field": "tokens"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> The `field_map` object maps the input document field name (which is `text` 
in this example) to the name of the field that the model expects (which is 
always `text_field`).
<2> The `text_expansion` inference type needs to be used in the {infer} ingest 
processor.


[discrete]
[[load-data]]
=== Load data

In this step, you load the data that you later use in the {infer} ingest 
pipeline to extract tokens from it.

Use the `msmarco-passagetest2019-top1000` data set, which is a subset of the MS 
MACRO Passage Ranking data set. It consists of 200 queries, each accompanied by 
a list of relevant text passages. All unique passages, along with their IDs, 
have been extracted from that data set and compiled into a 
https://github.com/elastic/stack-docs/blob/main/docs/en/stack/ml/nlp/data/msmarco-passagetest2019-unique.tsv[tsv file].

Download the file and upload it to your cluster using the 
{kibana-ref}/connect-to-elasticsearch.html#upload-data-kibana[Data Visualizer] 
in the {ml-app} UI. Assign the name `id` to the first column and `text` to the 
second column. The index name is `test-data`. Once the upload is complete, you 
can see an index named `test-data` with 182469 documents.


[discrete]
[[reindexing-data-elser]]
=== Ingest the data through the {infer} ingest pipeline

Create the tokens from the text by reindexing the data throught the {infer} 
pipeline that uses ELSER as the inference model.

[source,console]
----
POST _reindex?wait_for_completion=false
{
  "source": {
    "index": "test-data",
    "size": 50 <1>
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "my-index",
    "pipeline": "elser-v1-test"
  }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> The default batch size for reindexing is 1000. Reducing `size` to a smaller 
number makes the update of the reindexing process quicker which enables you to 
follow the progress closely and detect errors early.

The call returns a task ID to monitor the progress:

[source,console]
----
GET _tasks/<task_id>
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]

You can also open the Trained Models UI, select the Pipelines tab under ELSER to 
follow the progress. It may take a couple of minutes to complete the process.


[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query]]
=== Semantic search by using the `text_expansion` query

To perform semantic search, use the `text_expansion` query, 
and provide the query text and the ELSER model ID. The example below uses 
the query text "How to avoid muscle soreness after running?":

[source,console]
----
GET my-index/_search
{
   "query":{
      "text_expansion":{
         "ml.tokens":{
            "model_id":".elser_model_1",
            "model_text":"How to avoid muscle soreness after running?"
         }
      }
   }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]

The result is the top 10 documents that are closest in meaning to your query 
text from the `my-index` index sorted by their relevancy. The result also 
contains the extracted tokens for each of the relevant search results with their 
weights.

[source,consol-result]
----
"hits":[
   {
      "_index":"my-index",
      "_id":"978UAYgBKCQMet06sLEy",
      "_score":18.612831,
      "_ignored":[
         "text.keyword"
      ],
      "_source":{
         "id":7361587,
         "text":"For example, if you go for a run, you will mostly use the muscles in your lower body. Give yourself 2 days to rest those muscles so they have a chance to heal before you exercise them again. Not giving your muscles enough time to rest can cause muscle damage, rather than muscle development.",
         "ml":{
            "tokens":{
               "muscular":0.075696334,
               "mostly":0.52380747,
               "practice":0.23430172,
               "rehab":0.3673556,
               "cycling":0.13947526,
               "your":0.35725075,
               "years":0.69484913,
               "soon":0.005317828,
               "leg":0.41748235,
               "fatigue":0.3157955,
               "rehabilitation":0.13636169,
               "muscles":1.302141,
               "exercises":0.36694175,
               (...)
            },
            "model_id":".elser_model_1"
         }
      }
   },
   (...)
]
----
// NOTCONSOLE


[discrete]
[[text-expansion-compound-query]]
=== Combining semantic search with other queries

You can combine `text_expansion` with other queries in a 
<<compound-queries,compound query>>. For example using a filter clause in a 
<<query-dsl-bool-query>> or a full text query which may or may not use the same 
query text as the `text_expansion` query. This enables you to combine the search 
results from both queries.

The search hits from the `text_expansion` query tend to score higher than other 
{es} queries. Those scores can be regularized by increasing or decreasing the 
relevance scores of each query by using the `boost` parameter. Recall on the 
`text_expansion` query can be high where there is a long tail of less relevant 
results. Use the `min_score` parameter to prune those less relevant documents.

[source,console]
----
GET my-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": { <1>
      "should": [
        {
          "text_expansion": { 
            "ml.tokens": {
              "model_text": "How to avoid muscle soreness after running?",
              "model_id": ".elser_model_1",
              "boost": 1 <2>
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "query_string": {
            "query": "toxins",
            "boost": 4 <3>
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "min_score": 10 <4>
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> Both the `text_expansion` and the `query_string` queries are in a `should` 
clause of a `bool` query.
<2> The `boost` value is `1` for the `text_expansion` query which is the default 
value. This means that the relevance score of the results of this query are not 
boosted.
<3> The `boost` value is `4` for the `query_string` query. The relevance score 
of the results of this query is increased causing them to rank higher in the 
search results.
<4> Only the results with a score equal to or higher than `10` are displayed.


[discrete]
[[further-reading]]
=== Further reading

* {ml-docs}/ml-nlp-elser.html[How to download and deploy ELSER]
* {ml-docs}/ml-nlp-limitations.html#ml-nlp-elser-v1-limit-512[ELSER v1 limitation]
// TO DO: refer to the ELSER blog post

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adds note to the tutorial about the recommended ML node size for ELSER.

docs/reference/search/search-your-data/semantic-search-elser.asciidoc, after:

[[semantic-search-elser]]
== Tutorial: semantic search with ELSER
++++
<titleabbrev>Semantic search with ELSER</titleabbrev>
++++

Elastic Learned Sparse EncodeR - or ELSER - is an NLP model trained by Elastic 
that enables you to perform semantic search by using sparse vector 
representation. Instead of literal matching on search terms, semantic search 
retrieves results based on the intent and the contextual meaning of a search 
query.

The instructions in this tutorial shows you how to use ELSER to perform semantic 
search on your data.

NOTE: Only the first 512 extracted tokens per field are considered during 
semantic search with ELSER v1. Refer to 
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-limitations.html#ml-nlp-elser-v1-limit-512[this page] for more 
information.


[discrete]
[[requirements]]
=== Requirements

To perform semantic search by using ELSER, you must have the NLP model deployed 
in your cluster. Refer to the 
{ml-docs}/ml-nlp-elser.html[ELSER documentation] to learn how to download and 
deploy the model.

NOTE: The minimum dedicated ML node size for deploying and using the ELSER model 
is 4 GB. This is a minimum and better performance can be achieved by using 
bigger ML nodes.


[discrete]
[[elser-mappings]]
=== Create the index mapping

First, the mapping of the destination index - the index that contains the tokens 
that the model created based on your text - must be created.  The destination 
index must have a field with the <<rank-features, `rank_features`>> field type 
to index the ELSER output.

NOTE: ELSER output must be ingested into a field with the `rank_features` field 
type. Otherwise, {es} interprets the token-weight pairs as a massive amount of 
fields in a document. If you get an error similar to this `"Limit of total fields [1000] has been exceeded while adding
new fields"` then the ELSER output field is not mapped properly and it has a 
field type different than `rank_features`.

[source,console]
----
PUT my-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "ml.tokens": {
        "type": "rank_features" <1>
      },
      "text": { <2>
        "type": "text" <3>
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> The field that contains the prediction is a `rank_features` field.
<2> The name of the field from which to create the sparse vector representation. 
In this example, the name of the field is `text`.
<3> The field type which is text in this example.


[discrete]
[[inference-ingest-pipeline]]
=== Create an ingest pipeline with an inference processor

Create an <<ingest,ingest pipeline>> with an 
<<inference-processor,{infer} processor>> to use ELSER to infer against the data 
that is being ingested in the pipeline.

[source,console]
----
PUT _ingest/pipeline/elser-v1-test
{
  "processors": [
    {
      "inference": {
        "model_id": ".elser_model_1",
        "target_field": "ml",
        "field_map": { <1>
          "text": "text_field"
        },
        "inference_config": {
          "text_expansion": { <2>
            "results_field": "tokens"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> The `field_map` object maps the input document field name (which is `text` 
in this example) to the name of the field that the model expects (which is 
always `text_field`).
<2> The `text_expansion` inference type needs to be used in the {infer} ingest 
processor.


[discrete]
[[load-data]]
=== Load data

In this step, you load the data that you later use in the {infer} ingest 
pipeline to extract tokens from it.

Use the `msmarco-passagetest2019-top1000` data set, which is a subset of the MS 
MACRO Passage Ranking data set. It consists of 200 queries, each accompanied by 
a list of relevant text passages. All unique passages, along with their IDs, 
have been extracted from that data set and compiled into a 
https://github.com/elastic/stack-docs/blob/main/docs/en/stack/ml/nlp/data/msmarco-passagetest2019-unique.tsv[tsv file].

Download the file and upload it to your cluster using the 
{kibana-ref}/connect-to-elasticsearch.html#upload-data-kibana[Data Visualizer] 
in the {ml-app} UI. Assign the name `id` to the first column and `text` to the 
second column. The index name is `test-data`. Once the upload is complete, you 
can see an index named `test-data` with 182469 documents.


[discrete]
[[reindexing-data-elser]]
=== Ingest the data through the {infer} ingest pipeline

Create the tokens from the text by reindexing the data throught the {infer} 
pipeline that uses ELSER as the inference model.

[source,console]
----
POST _reindex?wait_for_completion=false
{
  "source": {
    "index": "test-data",
    "size": 50 <1>
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "my-index",
    "pipeline": "elser-v1-test"
  }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> The default batch size for reindexing is 1000. Reducing `size` to a smaller 
number makes the update of the reindexing process quicker which enables you to 
follow the progress closely and detect errors early.

The call returns a task ID to monitor the progress:

[source,console]
----
GET _tasks/<task_id>
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]

You can also open the Trained Models UI, select the Pipelines tab under ELSER to 
follow the progress. It may take a couple of minutes to complete the process.


[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query]]
=== Semantic search by using the `text_expansion` query

To perform semantic search, use the `text_expansion` query, 
and provide the query text and the ELSER model ID. The example below uses 
the query text "How to avoid muscle soreness after running?":

[source,console]
----
GET my-index/_search
{
   "query":{
      "text_expansion":{
         "ml.tokens":{
            "model_id":".elser_model_1",
            "model_text":"How to avoid muscle soreness after running?"
         }
      }
   }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]

The result is the top 10 documents that are closest in meaning to your query 
text from the `my-index` index sorted by their relevancy. The result also 
contains the extracted tokens for each of the relevant search results with their 
weights.

[source,consol-result]
----
"hits":[
   {
      "_index":"my-index",
      "_id":"978UAYgBKCQMet06sLEy",
      "_score":18.612831,
      "_ignored":[
         "text.keyword"
      ],
      "_source":{
         "id":7361587,
         "text":"For example, if you go for a run, you will mostly use the muscles in your lower body. Give yourself 2 days to rest those muscles so they have a chance to heal before you exercise them again. Not giving your muscles enough time to rest can cause muscle damage, rather than muscle development.",
         "ml":{
            "tokens":{
               "muscular":0.075696334,
               "mostly":0.52380747,
               "practice":0.23430172,
               "rehab":0.3673556,
               "cycling":0.13947526,
               "your":0.35725075,
               "years":0.69484913,
               "soon":0.005317828,
               "leg":0.41748235,
               "fatigue":0.3157955,
               "rehabilitation":0.13636169,
               "muscles":1.302141,
               "exercises":0.36694175,
               (...)
            },
            "model_id":".elser_model_1"
         }
      }
   },
   (...)
]
----
// NOTCONSOLE


[discrete]
[[text-expansion-compound-query]]
=== Combining semantic search with other queries

You can combine `text_expansion` with other queries in a 
<<compound-queries,compound query>>. For example using a filter clause in a 
<<query-dsl-bool-query>> or a full text query which may or may not use the same 
query text as the `text_expansion` query. This enables you to combine the search 
results from both queries.

The search hits from the `text_expansion` query tend to score higher than other 
{es} queries. Those scores can be regularized by increasing or decreasing the 
relevance scores of each query by using the `boost` parameter. Recall on the 
`text_expansion` query can be high where there is a long tail of less relevant 
results. Use the `min_score` parameter to prune those less relevant documents.

[source,console]
----
GET my-index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": { <1>
      "should": [
        {
          "text_expansion": { 
            "ml.tokens": {
              "model_text": "How to avoid muscle soreness after running?",
              "model_id": ".elser_model_1",
              "boost": 1 <2>
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "query_string": {
            "query": "toxins",
            "boost": 4 <3>
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "min_score": 10 <4>
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]
<1> Both the `text_expansion` and the `query_string` queries are in a `should` 
clause of a `bool` query.
<2> The `boost` value is `1` for the `text_expansion` query which is the default 
value. This means that the relevance score of the results of this query are not 
boosted.
<3> The `boost` value is `4` for the `query_string` query. The relevance score 
of the results of this query is increased causing them to rank higher in the 
search results.
<4> Only the results with a score equal to or higher than `10` are displayed.


[discrete]
[[further-reading]]
=== Further reading

* {ml-docs}/ml-nlp-elser.html[How to download and deploy ELSER]
* {ml-docs}/ml-nlp-limitations.html#ml-nlp-elser-v1-limit-512[ELSER v1 limitation]
// TO DO: refer to the ELSER blog post
