docs/reference/setup/install/targz-start.asciidoc, before:

==== Running Elasticsearch from the command line

[IMPORTANT]
.Unidentified developer warnings
====
Apple's rollout of stricter notarization requirements affected the notarization
of the {version} {es} artifacts. If macOS Catalina displays an unidentified
developer warning when you first run {es}, you will need to add a security
override.

To add a security override, follow the instructions in
https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/open-a-mac-app-from-an-unidentified-developer-mh40616/mac[Open
a Mac app from an unidentified developer].
====

Elasticsearch can be started from the command line as follows:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------
./bin/elasticsearch
--------------------------------------------

By default, Elasticsearch runs in the foreground, prints its logs to the
standard output (`stdout`), and can be stopped by pressing `Ctrl-C`.

NOTE: All scripts packaged with Elasticsearch require a version of Bash
that supports arrays and assume that Bash is available at `/bin/bash`.
As such, Bash should be available at this path either directly or via a
symbolic link.

Commit message:

[DOCS] [7.6] Update Apple notarization instructions
* Adds a command for notarization security override.
* Changes the Apple support link for the notarization security
  overrides.

docs/reference/setup/install/targz-start.asciidoc, after:

==== Running Elasticsearch from the command line

[IMPORTANT]
.Unidentified developer warnings
====
Apple's rollout of stricter notarization requirements affected the notarization
of the {version} {es} artifacts. If macOS Catalina displays an unidentified
developer warning when you first run {es}, you will need to add a security
override.

To add a security override, run the following command on the downloaded
`.tar.gz` archive or the directory to which was extracted:

[source,sh]
----
xattr -d -r com.apple.quarantine <archive-or-directory>
----

For example, if the `.tar.gz` file was extracted to the default
elasticsearch-{version} directory, the command is:

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
xattr -d -r com.apple.quarantine elasticsearch-{version}
----

Alternatively, you can add a security override for both `jdk.app` and
`controller.app` by following the instructions in the _How to open an app that
hasn’t been notarized or is from an unidentified developer_ section of
https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT202491[Safely open apps on your Mac].
====

Elasticsearch can be started from the command line as follows:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------
./bin/elasticsearch
--------------------------------------------

By default, Elasticsearch runs in the foreground, prints its logs to the
standard output (`stdout`), and can be stopped by pressing `Ctrl-C`.

NOTE: All scripts packaged with Elasticsearch require a version of Bash
that supports arrays and assume that Bash is available at `/bin/bash`.
As such, Bash should be available at this path either directly or via a
symbolic link.
