docs/reference/migration/migrate_8_0/indices.asciidoc, before:

[discrete]
[[breaking_80_indices_changes]]
==== Indices changes

//NOTE: The notable-breaking-changes tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

//tag::notable-breaking-changes[]
.The deprecated `_upgrade` API has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Previously, the `_upgrade` API upgraded indices from the previous major
version to the current version. The `_reindex` API should be used
instead for that purpose.

*Impact* +
Requests made to the old `_upgrade` API will return an error.
====

.The force merge API's `max_num_segments` and `only_expunge_deletes` parameters cannot both be specified in the same request.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Previously, the force merge API allowed the parameters `only_expunge_deletes`
and `max_num_segments` to be set to a non default value at the same time. But
the `max_num_segments` was silently ignored when `only_expunge_deletes` is set
to `true`, leaving the false impression that it has been applied.

*Impact* +
When using the {ref}/indices-forcemerge.html[force merge API], do not specify
values for both the `max_num_segments` and `only_expunge_deletes` parameters.
Requests that include values for both parameters will return an error.
====

.The `index.force_memory_term_dictionary` setting has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The `index.force_memory_term_dictionary` setting was introduced in 7.0 as a
temporary measure to allow users to opt-out of the optimization that leaves the
term dictionary on disk when appropriate. This optimization is now mandatory
and the setting is removed.

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `index.force_memory_term_dictionary` index setting.
Requests that include this setting will return an error.
====

.The create or update index template API's `template` parameter has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
In 6.0, we deprecated the `template` parameter in create or update index
template requests in favor of using `index_patterns`. Support for the `template`
parameter is now removed in 8.0.

*Impact* +
Use the {ref}/indices-templates-v1.html[create or update index template API]'s
`index_patterns` parameter. Requests that include the `template` parameter will
return an error.
====

.Synced flush has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Synced flush was deprecated in 7.6 and is removed in 8.0. Use a regular flush
instead as it has the same effect as a synced flush in 7.6 and later.

*Impact* +
Use the {ref}/indices-flush.html[flush API]. Requests to the
`/<index>/flush/synced` or `/flush/synced` endpoints will return an error.
====

.The `index.soft_deletes.enabled` setting has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Creating indices with soft deletes disabled was deprecated in 7.6 and
is no longer supported in 8.0. The `index.soft_deletes.enabled` setting
can no longer be set to `false`.

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `index.soft_deletes.enabled` index setting. Requests that
set `index.soft_deletes.enabled` to `false` will return an error.
====

.The `index.translog.retention.age` and `index.translog.retention.size` settings have been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Translog retention settings `index.translog.retention.age` and
`index.translog.retention.size` were effectively ignored in 7.4, deprecated in
7.7, and removed in 8.0 in favor of
{ref}/index-modules-history-retention.html[soft deletes].

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `index.translog.retention.age` and
`index.translog.retention.size` index settings. Requests that
include these settings will return an error.
====

.The default for the `?wait_for_active_shards` parameter on the close index API has changed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
When closing an index in earlier versions, by default {es} would not wait for
the shards of the closed index to be properly assigned before returning. From
version 8.0 onwards the default behaviour is to wait for shards to be assigned
according to the
{ref}/docs-index_.html#index-wait-for-active-shards[`index.write.wait_for_active_shards`
index setting].

*Impact* +
Accept the new behaviour, or specify `?wait_for_active_shards=0` to preserve
the old behaviour if needed.
====
//end::notable-breaking-changes[]

Commit message:

Fail index creation using custom data path
Custom per-index data paths were deprecated in 7.14. This commit blocks
creation of indices in 8.0 from configuring custom data paths.

relates #73168

docs/reference/migration/migrate_8_0/indices.asciidoc, after:

[discrete]
[[breaking_80_indices_changes]]
==== Indices changes

//NOTE: The notable-breaking-changes tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

//tag::notable-breaking-changes[]
.The deprecated `_upgrade` API has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Previously, the `_upgrade` API upgraded indices from the previous major
version to the current version. The `_reindex` API should be used
instead for that purpose.

*Impact* +
Requests made to the old `_upgrade` API will return an error.
====

.The force merge API's `max_num_segments` and `only_expunge_deletes` parameters cannot both be specified in the same request.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Previously, the force merge API allowed the parameters `only_expunge_deletes`
and `max_num_segments` to be set to a non default value at the same time. But
the `max_num_segments` was silently ignored when `only_expunge_deletes` is set
to `true`, leaving the false impression that it has been applied.

*Impact* +
When using the {ref}/indices-forcemerge.html[force merge API], do not specify
values for both the `max_num_segments` and `only_expunge_deletes` parameters.
Requests that include values for both parameters will return an error.
====

.The `index.force_memory_term_dictionary` setting has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The `index.force_memory_term_dictionary` setting was introduced in 7.0 as a
temporary measure to allow users to opt-out of the optimization that leaves the
term dictionary on disk when appropriate. This optimization is now mandatory
and the setting is removed.

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `index.force_memory_term_dictionary` index setting.
Requests that include this setting will return an error.
====

.The create or update index template API's `template` parameter has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
In 6.0, we deprecated the `template` parameter in create or update index
template requests in favor of using `index_patterns`. Support for the `template`
parameter is now removed in 8.0.

*Impact* +
Use the {ref}/indices-templates-v1.html[create or update index template API]'s
`index_patterns` parameter. Requests that include the `template` parameter will
return an error.
====

.Synced flush has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Synced flush was deprecated in 7.6 and is removed in 8.0. Use a regular flush
instead as it has the same effect as a synced flush in 7.6 and later.

*Impact* +
Use the {ref}/indices-flush.html[flush API]. Requests to the
`/<index>/flush/synced` or `/flush/synced` endpoints will return an error.
====

.The `index.soft_deletes.enabled` setting has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Creating indices with soft deletes disabled was deprecated in 7.6 and
is no longer supported in 8.0. The `index.soft_deletes.enabled` setting
can no longer be set to `false`.

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `index.soft_deletes.enabled` index setting. Requests that
set `index.soft_deletes.enabled` to `false` will return an error.
====

.The `index.translog.retention.age` and `index.translog.retention.size` settings have been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Translog retention settings `index.translog.retention.age` and
`index.translog.retention.size` were effectively ignored in 7.4, deprecated in
7.7, and removed in 8.0 in favor of
{ref}/index-modules-history-retention.html[soft deletes].

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `index.translog.retention.age` and
`index.translog.retention.size` index settings. Requests that
include these settings will return an error.
====

.The default for the `?wait_for_active_shards` parameter on the close index API has changed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
When closing an index in earlier versions, by default {es} would not wait for
the shards of the closed index to be properly assigned before returning. From
version 8.0 onwards the default behaviour is to wait for shards to be assigned
according to the
{ref}/docs-index_.html#index-wait-for-active-shards[`index.write.wait_for_active_shards`
index setting].

*Impact* +
Accept the new behaviour, or specify `?wait_for_active_shards=0` to preserve
the old behaviour if needed.
====

.The setting `index.data_path` is not longer allowed on new indices.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Creating an index relative to the node level `path.shared_data` setting was
previously used with shadow replicas prior to their removal in 6.0. The
per-index data path in `index.data_path` was deprecated in 7.14.0. In 8.0,
creating new indices with `index.data_path` is no longer supported.

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `index.data_path` setting. Creating new indices with
this setting will return an error.
====
//end::notable-breaking-changes[]
