docs/reference/migration/migrate_8_0/transport.asciidoc, before:

[discrete]
[[breaking_80_transport_changes]]
==== Transport changes

//NOTE: The notable-breaking-changes tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

//tag::notable-breaking-changes[]
.Several `transport` settings have been replaced.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The following settings have been deprecated in 7.x and removed in 8.0. Each setting has a replacement
setting that was introduced in 6.7.

- `transport.tcp.port` replaced by `transport.port`
- `transport.tcp.compress` replaced by `transport.compress`
- `transport.tcp.connect_timeout` replaced by `transport.connect_timeout`
- `transport.tcp_no_delay` replaced by `transport.tcp.no_delay`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp_no_delay` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.no_delay`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp_keep_alive` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.keep_alive`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.reuse_address` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.reuse_address`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.send_buffer_size` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.send_buffer_size`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.receive_buffer_size` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.receive_buffer_size`

*Impact* +
Use the replacement settings. Discontinue use of the removed settings.
Specifying the removed settings in `elasticsearch.yml` will result in an error
on startup.
====

.The `es.unsafely_permit_handshake_from_incompatible_builds` system property has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
{es} has a check that verifies that communicating pairs of nodes of the same
version are running exactly the same build and therefore using the same wire
format as each other. In previous versions this check can be bypassed by
setting the system property
`es.unsafely_permit_handshake_from_incompatible_builds` to `true`. The use of
this system property is now forbidden.

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `es.unsafely_permit_handshake_from_incompatible_builds`
system property, and ensure that all nodes of the same version are running
exactly the same build. Setting this system property will result in an error
on startup.
====
// end::notable-breaking-changes[]

Commit message:

Enable LZ4 transport compression by default.
This commit enables LZ4 transport compression by default at the
index_data level.

docs/reference/migration/migrate_8_0/transport.asciidoc, after:

[discrete]
[[breaking_80_transport_changes]]
==== Transport changes

//NOTE: The notable-breaking-changes tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

//tag::notable-breaking-changes[]
.Several `transport` settings have been replaced.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The following settings have been deprecated in 7.x and removed in 8.0. Each setting has a replacement
setting that was introduced in 6.7.

- `transport.tcp.port` replaced by `transport.port`
- `transport.tcp.compress` replaced by `transport.compress`
- `transport.tcp.connect_timeout` replaced by `transport.connect_timeout`
- `transport.tcp_no_delay` replaced by `transport.tcp.no_delay`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp_no_delay` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.no_delay`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp_keep_alive` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.keep_alive`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.reuse_address` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.reuse_address`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.send_buffer_size` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.send_buffer_size`
- `transport.profiles.profile_name.receive_buffer_size` replaced by `transport.profiles.profile_name.tcp.receive_buffer_size`

*Impact* +
Use the replacement settings. Discontinue use of the removed settings.
Specifying the removed settings in `elasticsearch.yml` will result in an error
on startup.
====

.The `es.unsafely_permit_handshake_from_incompatible_builds` system property has been removed.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
{es} has a check that verifies that communicating pairs of nodes of the same
version are running exactly the same build and therefore using the same wire
format as each other. In previous versions this check can be bypassed by
setting the system property
`es.unsafely_permit_handshake_from_incompatible_builds` to `true`. The use of
this system property is now forbidden.

*Impact* +
Discontinue use of the `es.unsafely_permit_handshake_from_incompatible_builds`
system property, and ensure that all nodes of the same version are running
exactly the same build. Setting this system property will result in an error
on startup.
====

.Selective transport compression has been enabled by default.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Prior to 8.0, transport compression was disabled by default. Starting in 8.0,
`transport.compress` defaults to `indexing_data`. This configuration means that
the propagation of raw indexing data will be compressed between nodes.

*Impact* +
Inter-node transit will get reduced along the indexing path. In some scenarios,
CPU usage could increase.
====

.Transport compression defaults to lz4.
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
Prior to 8.0, the transport compression scheme defaulted to `deflate`. Starting in
8.0,  `transport.compress_scheme` defaults to `lz4`.

*Impact* +
This configuration means that transport compression will produce somewhat worse
compression ratios in exchange for lower CPU load.
====
// end::notable-breaking-changes[]
