docs/reference/cat/plugins.asciidoc, before:

[[cat-plugins]]
== cat plugins

The `plugins` command provides a view per node of running plugins. This information *spans nodes*.

[source,js]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GET /_cat/plugins?v&s=component&h=name,component,version,description
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Might look like:

["source","txt",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
name    component               version   description
U7321H6 analysis-icu            {version} The ICU Analysis plugin integrates Lucene ICU module into elasticsearch, adding ICU relates analysis components.
U7321H6 analysis-kuromoji       {version} The Japanese (kuromoji) Analysis plugin integrates Lucene kuromoji analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-nori           {version} The Korean (nori) Analysis plugin integrates Lucene nori analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-phonetic       {version} The Phonetic Analysis plugin integrates phonetic token filter analysis with elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-smartcn        {version} Smart Chinese Analysis plugin integrates Lucene Smart Chinese analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-stempel        {version} The Stempel (Polish) Analysis plugin integrates Lucene stempel (polish) analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-ukrainian      {version} The Ukrainian Analysis plugin integrates the Lucene UkrainianMorfologikAnalyzer into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 discovery-azure-classic {version} The Azure Classic Discovery plugin allows to use Azure Classic API for the unicast discovery mechanism
U7321H6 discovery-ec2           {version} The EC2 discovery plugin allows to use AWS API for the unicast discovery mechanism.
U7321H6 discovery-file          {version} Discovery file plugin enables unicast discovery from hosts stored in a file.
U7321H6 discovery-gce           {version} The Google Compute Engine (GCE) Discovery plugin allows to use GCE API for the unicast discovery mechanism.
U7321H6 ingest-attachment       {version} Ingest processor that uses Apache Tika to extract contents
U7321H6 ingest-geoip            {version} Ingest processor that uses looksup geo data based on ip adresses using the Maxmind geo database
U7321H6 ingest-user-agent       {version} Ingest processor that extracts information from a user agent
U7321H6 mapper-murmur3          {version} The Mapper Murmur3 plugin allows to compute hashes of a field's values at index-time and to store them in the index.
U7321H6 mapper-size             {version} The Mapper Size plugin allows document to record their uncompressed size at index time.
U7321H6 store-smb               {version} The Store SMB plugin adds support for SMB stores.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/([.()])/\\$1/ s/U7321H6/.+/ _cat]

We can tell quickly how many plugins per node we have and which versions.

Commit message:

New plugin - Annotated_text field type (#33851)
Backport of annotated_text plugin, issue #29467

docs/reference/cat/plugins.asciidoc, after:

[[cat-plugins]]
== cat plugins

The `plugins` command provides a view per node of running plugins. This information *spans nodes*.

[source,js]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GET /_cat/plugins?v&s=component&h=name,component,version,description
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Might look like:

["source","txt",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
name    component               version   description
U7321H6 analysis-icu            {version} The ICU Analysis plugin integrates Lucene ICU module into elasticsearch, adding ICU relates analysis components.
U7321H6 analysis-kuromoji       {version} The Japanese (kuromoji) Analysis plugin integrates Lucene kuromoji analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-nori           {version} The Korean (nori) Analysis plugin integrates Lucene nori analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-phonetic       {version} The Phonetic Analysis plugin integrates phonetic token filter analysis with elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-smartcn        {version} Smart Chinese Analysis plugin integrates Lucene Smart Chinese analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-stempel        {version} The Stempel (Polish) Analysis plugin integrates Lucene stempel (polish) analysis module into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 analysis-ukrainian      {version} The Ukrainian Analysis plugin integrates the Lucene UkrainianMorfologikAnalyzer into elasticsearch.
U7321H6 discovery-azure-classic {version} The Azure Classic Discovery plugin allows to use Azure Classic API for the unicast discovery mechanism
U7321H6 discovery-ec2           {version} The EC2 discovery plugin allows to use AWS API for the unicast discovery mechanism.
U7321H6 discovery-file          {version} Discovery file plugin enables unicast discovery from hosts stored in a file.
U7321H6 discovery-gce           {version} The Google Compute Engine (GCE) Discovery plugin allows to use GCE API for the unicast discovery mechanism.
U7321H6 ingest-attachment       {version} Ingest processor that uses Apache Tika to extract contents
U7321H6 ingest-geoip            {version} Ingest processor that uses looksup geo data based on ip adresses using the Maxmind geo database
U7321H6 ingest-user-agent       {version} Ingest processor that extracts information from a user agent
U7321H6 mapper-annotated-text   {version} The Mapper Annotated_text plugin adds support for text fields with markup used to inject annotation tokens into the index.
U7321H6 mapper-murmur3          {version} The Mapper Murmur3 plugin allows to compute hashes of a field's values at index-time and to store them in the index.
U7321H6 mapper-size             {version} The Mapper Size plugin allows document to record their uncompressed size at index time.
U7321H6 store-smb               {version} The Store SMB plugin adds support for SMB stores.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/([.()])/\\$1/ s/U7321H6/.+/ _cat]

We can tell quickly how many plugins per node we have and which versions.
