docs/reference/sql/language/data-types.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[sql-data-types]]
== Data Types

beta[]

Most of {es} <<mapping-types, data types>> are available in {es-sql}, as indicated below.
As one can see, all of {es} <<mapping-types, data types>> are mapped to the data type with the same
name in {es-sql}, with the exception of **date** data type which is mapped to **datetime** in {es-sql}:

[cols="^,^m,^,^"]

|===
s|{es} type
s|{es-sql} type
s|SQL type
s|SQL precision

4+h| Core types

| <<null-value, `null`>>      | null          | NULL        | 0
| <<boolean, `boolean`>>      | boolean       | BOOLEAN     | 1
| <<number, `byte`>>          | byte          | TINYINT     | 3
| <<number, `short`>>         | short         | SMALLINT    | 5
| <<number, `integer`>>       | integer       | INTEGER     | 10
| <<number, `long`>>          | long          | BIGINT      | 19
| <<number, `double`>>        | double        | DOUBLE      | 15
| <<number, `float`>>         | float         | REAL        | 7
| <<number, `half_float`>>    | half_float    | FLOAT       | 16
| <<number, `scaled_float`>>  | scaled_float  | FLOAT       | 19
| <<keyword, `keyword`>>      | keyword       | VARCHAR     | based on <<ignore-above>>
| <<text, `text`>>            | text          | VARCHAR     | 2,147,483,647
| <<binary, `binary`>>        | binary        | VARBINARY   | 2,147,483,647
| <<date, `date`>>            | datetime      | TIMESTAMP   | 24
| <<ip, `ip`>>                | ip            | VARCHAR     | 39

4+h| Complex types

| <<object, `object`>>        | object        | STRUCT      | 0
| <<nested, `nested`>>        | nested        | STRUCT      | 0

4+h| Unsupported types

| _types not mentioned above_ | unsupported   | OTHER       | 0

|===


Obviously, not all types in {es} have an equivalent in SQL and vice-versa hence why, {es-sql}
uses the data type _particularities_ of the former over the latter as ultimately {es} is the backing store.

In addition to the types above, {es-sql} also supports at _runtime_ SQL-specific types that do not have an equivalent in {es}.
Such types cannot be loaded from {es} (as it does not know about them) however can be used inside {es-sql} in queries or their results.

The table below indicates these types:

[cols="^m,^"]

|===
s|SQL type
s|SQL precision


| interval_year             | 7
| interval_month            | 7
| interval_day              | 23
| interval_hour             | 23
| interval_minute           | 23
| interval_second           | 23
| interval_year_to_month    | 7
| interval_day_to_hour      | 23
| interval_day_to_minute    | 23
| interval_day_to_second    | 23
| interval_hour_to_minute   | 23
| interval_hour_to_second   | 23
| interval_minute_to_second | 23

|===


[[sql-multi-field]]
[float]
=== SQL and multi-fields

A core concept in {es} is that of an `analyzed` field, that is a full-text value that is interpreted in order
to be effectively indexed. These fields are of type <<text, `text`>> and are not used for sorting or aggregations as their actual value depends on the <<analyzer, `analyzer`>> used hence why {es} also offers the <<keyword, `keyword`>> type for storing the _exact_
value.

In most case, and the default actually, is to use both types when for strings which {es} supports through <<multi-fields, multi fields>>, that is the ability to index the same string in multiple ways; for example index it both as `text` for search but also as `keyword` for sorting and aggregations.

As SQL requires exact values, when encountering a `text` field {es-sql} will search for an exact multi-field that it can use for comparisons, sorting and aggregations.
To do that, it will search for the first `keyword` that it can find that is _not_ normalized and use that as the original field _exact_ value.

Consider the following `string` mapping:

[source, js]
----
{
    "first_name" : {
        "type" : "text",
        "fields" : {
            "raw" : {
                "type" : "keyword"
            }
        }
    }
}
----
// NOTCONSOLE

The following SQL query:

[source, sql]
----
SELECT first_name FROM index WHERE first_name = 'John'
----

is identical to:

[source, sql]
----
SELECT first_name FROM index WHERE first_name.raw = 'John'
----

as {es-sql} automatically _picks_ up the `raw` multi-field from `raw` for exact matching.

Commit message:

SQL: Introduce SQL DATE data type
Support ANSI SQL's DATE type by introducing a runtime-only
ES SQL date type.

Closes: #37340

docs/reference/sql/language/data-types.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[sql-data-types]]
== Data Types

beta[]

Most of {es} <<mapping-types, data types>> are available in {es-sql}, as indicated below.
As one can see, all of {es} <<mapping-types, data types>> are mapped to the data type with the same
name in {es-sql}, with the exception of **date** data type which is mapped to **datetime** in {es-sql}.
This is to avoid confusion with the ANSI SQL date (date only) type, which is also supported by {es-sql}
in queries (with the use of <<sql-functions-type-conversion-cast>>/<<sql-functions-type-conversion-convert>>),
but doesn't correspond to an actual mapping in {es}.

[cols="^,^m,^,^"]

|===
s|{es} type
s|{es-sql} type
s|SQL type
s|SQL precision

4+h| Core types

| <<null-value, `null`>>      | null          | NULL        | 0
| <<boolean, `boolean`>>      | boolean       | BOOLEAN     | 1
| <<number, `byte`>>          | byte          | TINYINT     | 3
| <<number, `short`>>         | short         | SMALLINT    | 5
| <<number, `integer`>>       | integer       | INTEGER     | 10
| <<number, `long`>>          | long          | BIGINT      | 19
| <<number, `double`>>        | double        | DOUBLE      | 15
| <<number, `float`>>         | float         | REAL        | 7
| <<number, `half_float`>>    | half_float    | FLOAT       | 16
| <<number, `scaled_float`>>  | scaled_float  | FLOAT       | 19
| <<keyword, `keyword`>>      | keyword       | VARCHAR     | based on <<ignore-above>>
| <<text, `text`>>            | text          | VARCHAR     | 2,147,483,647
| <<binary, `binary`>>        | binary        | VARBINARY   | 2,147,483,647
| <<date, `date`>>            | datetime      | TIMESTAMP   | 24
|                             | date          | DATE        | 24
| <<ip, `ip`>>                | ip            | VARCHAR     | 39

4+h| Complex types

| <<object, `object`>>        | object        | STRUCT      | 0
| <<nested, `nested`>>        | nested        | STRUCT      | 0

4+h| Unsupported types

| _types not mentioned above_ | unsupported   | OTHER       | 0

|===


Obviously, not all types in {es} have an equivalent in SQL and vice-versa hence why, {es-sql}
uses the data type _particularities_ of the former over the latter as ultimately {es} is the backing store.

In addition to the types above, {es-sql} also supports at _runtime_ SQL-specific types that do not have an equivalent in {es}.
Such types cannot be loaded from {es} (as it does not know about them) however can be used inside {es-sql} in queries or their results.

The table below indicates these types:

[cols="^m,^"]

|===
s|SQL type
s|SQL precision


| interval_year             | 7
| interval_month            | 7
| interval_day              | 23
| interval_hour             | 23
| interval_minute           | 23
| interval_second           | 23
| interval_year_to_month    | 7
| interval_day_to_hour      | 23
| interval_day_to_minute    | 23
| interval_day_to_second    | 23
| interval_hour_to_minute   | 23
| interval_hour_to_second   | 23
| interval_minute_to_second | 23

|===


[[sql-multi-field]]
[float]
=== SQL and multi-fields

A core concept in {es} is that of an `analyzed` field, that is a full-text value that is interpreted in order
to be effectively indexed. These fields are of type <<text, `text`>> and are not used for sorting or aggregations as their actual value depends on the <<analyzer, `analyzer`>> used hence why {es} also offers the <<keyword, `keyword`>> type for storing the _exact_
value.

In most case, and the default actually, is to use both types when for strings which {es} supports through <<multi-fields, multi fields>>, that is the ability to index the same string in multiple ways; for example index it both as `text` for search but also as `keyword` for sorting and aggregations.

As SQL requires exact values, when encountering a `text` field {es-sql} will search for an exact multi-field that it can use for comparisons, sorting and aggregations.
To do that, it will search for the first `keyword` that it can find that is _not_ normalized and use that as the original field _exact_ value.

Consider the following `string` mapping:

[source, js]
----
{
    "first_name" : {
        "type" : "text",
        "fields" : {
            "raw" : {
                "type" : "keyword"
            }
        }
    }
}
----
// NOTCONSOLE

The following SQL query:

[source, sql]
----
SELECT first_name FROM index WHERE first_name = 'John'
----

is identical to:

[source, sql]
----
SELECT first_name FROM index WHERE first_name.raw = 'John'
----

as {es-sql} automatically _picks_ up the `raw` multi-field from `raw` for exact matching.
