docs/reference/ingest/processors/csv.asciidoc, before:

[[csv-processor]]
=== CSV Processor
Extracts fields from CSV line out of a single text field within a document. Any empty field in CSV will be skipped.

[[csv-options]]
.CSV Options
[options="header"]
|======
| Name              | Required  | Default  | Description
| `field`           | yes       | -        | The field to extract data from
| `target_fields`   | yes       | -        | The array of fields to assign extracted values to
| `separator`       | no        | ,        | Separator used in CSV, has to be single character string
| `quote`           | no        | "        | Quote used in CSV, has to be single character string
| `ignore_missing`  | no        | `true`   | If `true` and `field` does not exist, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document
| `trim`            | no        | `false`  | Trim whitespaces in unquoted fields
include::common-options.asciidoc[]
|======

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "csv": {
    "field": "my_field",
    "target_fields": ["field1, field2"]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

If the `trim` option is enabled then any whitespace in the beginning and in the end of each unquoted field will be trimmed.
For example with configuration above, a value of `A, B` will result in field `field2`
having value `{nbsp}B` (with space at the beginning). If `trim` is enabled `A, B` will result in field `field2`
having value `B` (no whitespace). Quoted fields will be left untouched.

Commit message:

Add empty_value parameter to CSV processor (#51567)
* Add empty_value parameter to CSV processor

This change adds `empty_value` parameter to the CSV processor.
This value is used to fill empty fields. Fields will be skipped
if this parameter is ommited. This behavior is the same for both
quoted and unquoted fields.

* docs updated

* Fix compilation problem

Co-authored-by: Elastic Machine <elasticmachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/reference/ingest/processors/csv.asciidoc, after:

[[csv-processor]]
=== CSV Processor
Extracts fields from CSV line out of a single text field within a document. Any empty field in CSV will be skipped.

[[csv-options]]
.CSV Options
[options="header"]
|======
| Name              | Required  | Default  | Description
| `field`           | yes       | -        | The field to extract data from
| `target_fields`   | yes       | -        | The array of fields to assign extracted values to
| `separator`       | no        | ,        | Separator used in CSV, has to be single character string
| `quote`           | no        | "        | Quote used in CSV, has to be single character string
| `ignore_missing`  | no        | `true`   | If `true` and `field` does not exist, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document
| `trim`            | no        | `false`  | Trim whitespaces in unquoted fields
| `empty_value`     | no        | -        | Value used to fill empty fields, empty fields will be skipped if this is not provided.
                                             Empty field is one with no value (2 consecutive separators) or empty quotes (`""`)
include::common-options.asciidoc[]
|======

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "csv": {
    "field": "my_field",
    "target_fields": ["field1, field2"]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

If the `trim` option is enabled then any whitespace in the beginning and in the end of each unquoted field will be trimmed.
For example with configuration above, a value of `A, B` will result in field `field2`
having value `{nbsp}B` (with space at the beginning). If `trim` is enabled `A, B` will result in field `field2`
having value `B` (no whitespace). Quoted fields will be left untouched.
