docs/reference/ingest/processors/geoip.asciidoc, before:

[[geoip-processor]]
=== GeoIP processor
++++
<titleabbrev>GeoIP</titleabbrev>
++++

The `geoip` processor adds information about the geographical location of an
IPv4 or IPv6 address.

[[geoip-automatic-updates]]
By default, the processor uses the GeoLite2 City, GeoLite2 Country, and GeoLite2
ASN GeoIP2 databases from http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/[MaxMind], shared under the
CC BY-SA 4.0 license. It automatically downloads these databases if your nodes can connect to `storage.googleapis.com` domain and either:

* `ingest.geoip.downloader.eager.download` is set to true
* your cluster has at least one pipeline with a `geoip` processor
 
{es} automatically downloads updates for these databases from the Elastic GeoIP endpoint:
https://geoip.elastic.co/v1/database. To get download statistics for these
updates, use the <<geoip-stats-api,GeoIP stats API>>.

If your cluster can't connect to the Elastic GeoIP endpoint or you want to
manage your own updates, see <<manage-geoip-database-updates>>.

If {es} can't connect to the endpoint for 30 days all updated databases will become
invalid. {es} will stop enriching documents with geoip data and will add `tags: ["_geoip_expired_database"]`
field instead.

[[using-ingest-geoip]]
==== Using the `geoip` Processor in a Pipeline

[[ingest-geoip-options]]
.`geoip` options
[options="header"]
|======
| Name                   | Required  | Default                                                                            | Description
| `field`                | yes       | -                                                                                  | The field to get the ip address from for the geographical lookup.
| `target_field`         | no        | geoip                                                                              | The field that will hold the geographical information looked up from the MaxMind database.
| `database_file`        | no        | GeoLite2-City.mmdb                                                                 | The database filename referring to a database the module ships with (GeoLite2-City.mmdb, GeoLite2-Country.mmdb, or GeoLite2-ASN.mmdb) or a custom database in the `ingest-geoip` config directory.
| `properties`           | no        | [`continent_name`, `country_iso_code`, `country_name`, `region_iso_code`, `region_name`, `city_name`, `location`] *   | Controls what properties are added to the `target_field` based on the geoip lookup.
| `ignore_missing`       | no        | `false`                                                                            | If `true` and `field` does not exist, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document
| `first_only`           | no        | `true`                                                                             | If `true` only first found geoip data will be returned, even if `field` contains array
|======

*Depends on what is available in `database_file`:

* If the GeoLite2 City database is used, then the following fields may be added under the `target_field`: `ip`,
`country_iso_code`, `country_name`, `continent_name`, `region_iso_code`, `region_name`, `city_name`, `timezone`, `latitude`, `longitude`
and `location`. The fields actually added depend on what has been found and which properties were configured in `properties`.
* If the GeoLite2 Country database is used, then the following fields may be added under the `target_field`: `ip`,
`country_iso_code`, `country_name` and `continent_name`. The fields actually added depend on what has been found and which properties
were configured in `properties`.
* If the GeoLite2 ASN database is used, then the following fields may be added under the `target_field`: `ip`,
`asn`, `organization_name` and `network`. The fields actually added depend on what has been found and which properties were configured
in `properties`.


Here is an example that uses the default city database and adds the geographical information to the `geoip` field based on the `ip` field:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip"
      }
    }
  ]
}
PUT my-index-000001/_doc/my_id?pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "89.160.20.128"
}
GET my-index-000001/_doc/my_id
--------------------------------------------------

Which returns:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "found": true,
  "_index": "my-index-000001",
  "_id": "my_id",
  "_version": 1,
  "_seq_no": 55,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "_source": {
    "ip": "89.160.20.128",
    "geoip": {
      "continent_name": "Europe",
      "country_name": "Sweden",
      "country_iso_code": "SE",
      "city_name" : "Linköping",
      "region_iso_code" : "SE-E",
      "region_name" : "Östergötland County",
      "location": { "lat": 58.4167, "lon": 15.6167 }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_seq_no": \d+/"_seq_no" : $body._seq_no/ s/"_primary_term":1/"_primary_term" : $body._primary_term/]

Here is an example that uses the default country database and adds the
geographical information to the `geo` field based on the `ip` field. Note that
this database is included in the module. So this:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip",
        "target_field" : "geo",
        "database_file" : "GeoLite2-Country.mmdb"
      }
    }
  ]
}
PUT my-index-000001/_doc/my_id?pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "89.160.20.128"
}
GET my-index-000001/_doc/my_id
--------------------------------------------------

returns this:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "found": true,
  "_index": "my-index-000001",
  "_id": "my_id",
  "_version": 1,
  "_seq_no": 65,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "_source": {
    "ip": "89.160.20.128",
    "geo": {
      "continent_name": "Europe",
      "country_name": "Sweden",
      "country_iso_code": "SE"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_seq_no": \d+/"_seq_no" : $body._seq_no/ s/"_primary_term" : 1/"_primary_term" : $body._primary_term/]


Not all IP addresses find geo information from the database, When this
occurs, no `target_field` is inserted into the document.

Here is an example of what documents will be indexed as when information for "80.231.5.0"
cannot be found:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip"
      }
    }
  ]
}

PUT my-index-000001/_doc/my_id?pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "80.231.5.0"
}

GET my-index-000001/_doc/my_id
--------------------------------------------------

Which returns:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "_index" : "my-index-000001",
  "_id" : "my_id",
  "_version" : 1,
  "_seq_no" : 71,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "found" : true,
  "_source" : {
    "ip" : "80.231.5.0"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_seq_no" : \d+/"_seq_no" : $body._seq_no/ s/"_primary_term" : 1/"_primary_term" : $body._primary_term/]

[[ingest-geoip-mappings-note]]
===== Recognizing Location as a Geopoint
Although this processor enriches your document with a `location` field containing
the estimated latitude and longitude of the IP address, this field will not be
indexed as a {ref}/geo-point.html[`geo_point`] type in Elasticsearch without explicitly defining it
as such in the mapping.

You can use the following mapping for the example index above:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_ip_locations
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "geoip": {
        "properties": {
          "location": { "type": "geo_point" }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

////
[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip"
      }
    }
  ]
}

PUT my_ip_locations/_doc/1?refresh=true&pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "89.160.20.128"
}

GET /my_ip_locations/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "filter": {
        "geo_distance": {
          "distance": "1m",
          "geoip.location": {
            "lon": 15.6167,
            "lat": 58.4167
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took" : 3,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "my_ip_locations",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "_source" : {
          "geoip" : {
            "continent_name" : "Europe",
            "country_name" : "Sweden",
            "country_iso_code" : "SE",
            "city_name" : "Linköping",
            "region_iso_code" : "SE-E",
            "region_name" : "Östergötland County",
            "location" : {
              "lon" : 15.6167,
              "lat" : 58.4167
            }
          },
          "ip" : "89.160.20.128"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 3/"took" : $body.took/]
////

[[manage-geoip-database-updates]]
==== Manage your own GeoIP2 database updates

If you can't <<geoip-automatic-updates,automatically update>> your GeoIP2
databases from the Elastic endpoint, you have a few other options:

* <<use-proxy-geoip-endpoint,Use a proxy endpoint>>
* <<use-custom-geoip-endpoint,Use a custom endpoint>>
* <<manually-update-geoip-databases,Manually update your GeoIP2 databases>>

[[use-proxy-geoip-endpoint]]
**Use a proxy endpoint**

If you can't connect directly to the Elastic GeoIP endpoint, consider setting up
a secure proxy. You can then specify the proxy endpoint URL in the
<<ingest-geoip-downloader-endpoint,`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`>> setting
of each node’s `elasticsearch.yml` file.

In a strict setup the following domains may need to be added to the allowed
domains list:

* `geoip.elastic.co`
* `storage.googleapis.com`

[[use-custom-geoip-endpoint]]
**Use a custom endpoint**

You can create a service that mimics the Elastic GeoIP endpoint. You can then
get automatic updates from this service.

. Download your `.mmdb` database files from the
http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2[MaxMind site].

. Copy your database files to a single directory.

. From your {es} directory, run:
+
[source,sh]
----
./bin/elasticsearch-geoip -s my/source/dir [-t target/directory]
----

. Serve the static database files from your directory. For example, you can use
Docker to serve the files from an nginx server:
+
[source,sh]
----
docker run -v my/source/dir:/usr/share/nginx/html:ro nginx
----

. Specify the service's endpoint URL in the
<<ingest-geoip-downloader-endpoint,`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`>> setting
of each node’s `elasticsearch.yml` file.
+
By default, {es} checks the endpoint for updates every three days. To use
another polling interval, use the <<cluster-update-settings,cluster update
settings API>> to set
<<ingest-geoip-downloader-poll-interval,`ingest.geoip.downloader.poll.interval`>>.

[[manually-update-geoip-databases]]
**Manually update your GeoIP2 databases**

. Use the <<cluster-update-settings,cluster update settings API>> to set
`ingest.geoip.downloader.enabled` to `false`. This disables automatic updates
that may overwrite your database changes. This also deletes all downloaded
databases.

. Download your `.mmdb` database files from the
http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2[MaxMind site].
+
You can also use custom city, country, and ASN `.mmdb` files. These files must
be uncompressed and use the respective `-City.mmdb`, `-Country.mmdb`, or
`-ASN.mmdb` extensions.

. On {ess} deployments upload database using
a {cloud}/ec-custom-bundles.html[custom bundle].

. On self-managed deployments copy the database files to `$ES_CONFIG/ingest-geoip`.

. In your `geoip` processors, configure the `database_file` parameter to use a
custom database file.

[[ingest-geoip-settings]]
===== Node Settings

The `geoip` processor supports the following setting:

`ingest.geoip.cache_size`::

    The maximum number of results that should be cached. Defaults to `1000`.

Note that these settings are node settings and apply to all `geoip` processors, i.e. there is one cache for all defined `geoip` processors.

[[geoip-cluster-settings]]
===== Cluster settings

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-enabled]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.enabled`::
(<<dynamic-cluster-setting,Dynamic>>, Boolean)
If `true`, {es} automatically downloads and manages updates for GeoIP2 databases
from the `ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`. If `false`, {es} does not download
updates and deletes all downloaded databases. Defaults to `true`.

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-eager-download]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.eager.download`::
(<<dynamic-cluster-setting,Dynamic>>, Boolean)
If `true`, {es} downloads GeoIP2 databases immediately, regardless of whether a
pipeline exists with a geoip processor. If `false`, {es} only begins downloading
the databases if a pipeline with a geoip processor exists or is added. Defaults
to `false`.

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-endpoint]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>, string)
Endpoint URL used to download updates for GeoIP2 databases. For example, `https://myDomain.com/overview.json`.
Defaults to `https://geoip.elastic.co/v1/database`. {es} stores downloaded database files in
each node's <<es-tmpdir,temporary directory>> at `$ES_TMPDIR/geoip-databases/<node_id>`.
Note that {es} will make a GET request to `${ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint}?elastic_geoip_service_tos=agree`,
expecting the list of metadata about databases typically found in `overview.json`.

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-poll-interval]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.poll.interval`::
(<<dynamic-cluster-setting,Dynamic>>, <<time-units,time value>>)
How often {es} checks for GeoIP2 database updates at the
`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`. Must be greater than `1d` (one day). Defaults
to `3d` (three days).

Commit message:

Enable analytics geoip in behavioral analytics. (#96624)
* When using a managed pipeline GeoIpDownloader is triggered only when an index exists for the pipeline.

* When using a managed pipeline GeoIpDownloader is triggered only when an index exists for the pipeline.

* Adding the geoip processor back

* Adding tags to the events mapping.

* Fix a forbidden API call into tests.

* lint

* Adding an integration tests for managed pipelines.

* lint

* Add a geoip_database_lazy_download param to pipelines and use it instead of managed.

* Fix a edge case: pipeline can be set after index is created.

* lint.

* Update docs/changelog/96624.yaml

* Update 96624.yaml

* Uses a processor setting (download_database_on_pipeline_creation) to decide database download strategy.

* Removing debug instruction.

* Improved documentation.

* Improved the way to check for referenced pipelines.

* Fixing an error in test.

* Improved integration tests.

* Lint.

* Fix failing tests.

* Fix failing tests (2).

* Adding javadoc.

* lint javadoc.

* Using a set instead of a list to store checked pipelines.

docs/reference/ingest/processors/geoip.asciidoc, after:

[[geoip-processor]]
=== GeoIP processor
++++
<titleabbrev>GeoIP</titleabbrev>
++++

The `geoip` processor adds information about the geographical location of an
IPv4 or IPv6 address.

[[geoip-automatic-updates]]
By default, the processor uses the GeoLite2 City, GeoLite2 Country, and GeoLite2
ASN GeoIP2 databases from http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/[MaxMind], shared under the
CC BY-SA 4.0 license. It automatically downloads these databases if your nodes can connect to `storage.googleapis.com` domain and either:

* `ingest.geoip.downloader.eager.download` is set to true
* your cluster has at least one pipeline with a `geoip` processor

{es} automatically downloads updates for these databases from the Elastic GeoIP endpoint:
https://geoip.elastic.co/v1/database. To get download statistics for these
updates, use the <<geoip-stats-api,GeoIP stats API>>.

If your cluster can't connect to the Elastic GeoIP endpoint or you want to
manage your own updates, see <<manage-geoip-database-updates>>.

If {es} can't connect to the endpoint for 30 days all updated databases will become
invalid. {es} will stop enriching documents with geoip data and will add `tags: ["_geoip_expired_database"]`
field instead.

[[using-ingest-geoip]]
==== Using the `geoip` Processor in a Pipeline

[[ingest-geoip-options]]
.`geoip` options
[options="header"]
|======
| Name                                     | Required  | Default                                                                            | Description
| `field`                                  | yes       | -                                                                                  | The field to get the ip address from for the geographical lookup.
| `target_field`                           | no        | geoip                                                                              | The field that will hold the geographical information looked up from the MaxMind database.
| `database_file`                          | no        | GeoLite2-City.mmdb                                                                 | The database filename referring to a database the module ships with (GeoLite2-City.mmdb, GeoLite2-Country.mmdb, or GeoLite2-ASN.mmdb) or a custom database in the `ingest-geoip` config directory.
| `properties`                             | no        | [`continent_name`, `country_iso_code`, `country_name`, `region_iso_code`, `region_name`, `city_name`, `location`] *   | Controls what properties are added to the `target_field` based on the geoip lookup.
| `ignore_missing`                         | no        | `false`                                                                            | If `true` and `field` does not exist, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document
| `first_only`                             | no        | `true`                                                                             | If `true` only first found geoip data will be returned, even if `field` contains array
| `download_database_on_pipeline_creation` | no        | `true`                                                                             | If `true` (and if `ingest.geoip.downloader.eager.download` is `false`), the missing database is downloaded when the pipeline is created. Else, the download is triggered by when the pipeline is used as the `default_pipeline` or `final_pipeline` in an index.
|======

*Depends on what is available in `database_file`:

* If the GeoLite2 City database is used, then the following fields may be added under the `target_field`: `ip`,
`country_iso_code`, `country_name`, `continent_name`, `region_iso_code`, `region_name`, `city_name`, `timezone`, `latitude`, `longitude`
and `location`. The fields actually added depend on what has been found and which properties were configured in `properties`.
* If the GeoLite2 Country database is used, then the following fields may be added under the `target_field`: `ip`,
`country_iso_code`, `country_name` and `continent_name`. The fields actually added depend on what has been found and which properties
were configured in `properties`.
* If the GeoLite2 ASN database is used, then the following fields may be added under the `target_field`: `ip`,
`asn`, `organization_name` and `network`. The fields actually added depend on what has been found and which properties were configured
in `properties`.


Here is an example that uses the default city database and adds the geographical information to the `geoip` field based on the `ip` field:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip"
      }
    }
  ]
}
PUT my-index-000001/_doc/my_id?pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "89.160.20.128"
}
GET my-index-000001/_doc/my_id
--------------------------------------------------

Which returns:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "found": true,
  "_index": "my-index-000001",
  "_id": "my_id",
  "_version": 1,
  "_seq_no": 55,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "_source": {
    "ip": "89.160.20.128",
    "geoip": {
      "continent_name": "Europe",
      "country_name": "Sweden",
      "country_iso_code": "SE",
      "city_name" : "Linköping",
      "region_iso_code" : "SE-E",
      "region_name" : "Östergötland County",
      "location": { "lat": 58.4167, "lon": 15.6167 }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_seq_no": \d+/"_seq_no" : $body._seq_no/ s/"_primary_term":1/"_primary_term" : $body._primary_term/]

Here is an example that uses the default country database and adds the
geographical information to the `geo` field based on the `ip` field. Note that
this database is included in the module. So this:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip",
        "target_field" : "geo",
        "database_file" : "GeoLite2-Country.mmdb"
      }
    }
  ]
}
PUT my-index-000001/_doc/my_id?pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "89.160.20.128"
}
GET my-index-000001/_doc/my_id
--------------------------------------------------

returns this:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "found": true,
  "_index": "my-index-000001",
  "_id": "my_id",
  "_version": 1,
  "_seq_no": 65,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "_source": {
    "ip": "89.160.20.128",
    "geo": {
      "continent_name": "Europe",
      "country_name": "Sweden",
      "country_iso_code": "SE"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_seq_no": \d+/"_seq_no" : $body._seq_no/ s/"_primary_term" : 1/"_primary_term" : $body._primary_term/]


Not all IP addresses find geo information from the database, When this
occurs, no `target_field` is inserted into the document.

Here is an example of what documents will be indexed as when information for "80.231.5.0"
cannot be found:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip"
      }
    }
  ]
}

PUT my-index-000001/_doc/my_id?pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "80.231.5.0"
}

GET my-index-000001/_doc/my_id
--------------------------------------------------

Which returns:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "_index" : "my-index-000001",
  "_id" : "my_id",
  "_version" : 1,
  "_seq_no" : 71,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "found" : true,
  "_source" : {
    "ip" : "80.231.5.0"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_seq_no" : \d+/"_seq_no" : $body._seq_no/ s/"_primary_term" : 1/"_primary_term" : $body._primary_term/]

[[ingest-geoip-mappings-note]]
===== Recognizing Location as a Geopoint
Although this processor enriches your document with a `location` field containing
the estimated latitude and longitude of the IP address, this field will not be
indexed as a {ref}/geo-point.html[`geo_point`] type in Elasticsearch without explicitly defining it
as such in the mapping.

You can use the following mapping for the example index above:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_ip_locations
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "geoip": {
        "properties": {
          "location": { "type": "geo_point" }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

////
[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ingest/pipeline/geoip
{
  "description" : "Add geoip info",
  "processors" : [
    {
      "geoip" : {
        "field" : "ip"
      }
    }
  ]
}

PUT my_ip_locations/_doc/1?refresh=true&pipeline=geoip
{
  "ip": "89.160.20.128"
}

GET /my_ip_locations/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "filter": {
        "geo_distance": {
          "distance": "1m",
          "geoip.location": {
            "lon": 15.6167,
            "lat": 58.4167
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took" : 3,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "my_ip_locations",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "_source" : {
          "geoip" : {
            "continent_name" : "Europe",
            "country_name" : "Sweden",
            "country_iso_code" : "SE",
            "city_name" : "Linköping",
            "region_iso_code" : "SE-E",
            "region_name" : "Östergötland County",
            "location" : {
              "lon" : 15.6167,
              "lat" : 58.4167
            }
          },
          "ip" : "89.160.20.128"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 3/"took" : $body.took/]
////

[[manage-geoip-database-updates]]
==== Manage your own GeoIP2 database updates

If you can't <<geoip-automatic-updates,automatically update>> your GeoIP2
databases from the Elastic endpoint, you have a few other options:

* <<use-proxy-geoip-endpoint,Use a proxy endpoint>>
* <<use-custom-geoip-endpoint,Use a custom endpoint>>
* <<manually-update-geoip-databases,Manually update your GeoIP2 databases>>

[[use-proxy-geoip-endpoint]]
**Use a proxy endpoint**

If you can't connect directly to the Elastic GeoIP endpoint, consider setting up
a secure proxy. You can then specify the proxy endpoint URL in the
<<ingest-geoip-downloader-endpoint,`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`>> setting
of each node’s `elasticsearch.yml` file.

In a strict setup the following domains may need to be added to the allowed
domains list:

* `geoip.elastic.co`
* `storage.googleapis.com`

[[use-custom-geoip-endpoint]]
**Use a custom endpoint**

You can create a service that mimics the Elastic GeoIP endpoint. You can then
get automatic updates from this service.

. Download your `.mmdb` database files from the
http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2[MaxMind site].

. Copy your database files to a single directory.

. From your {es} directory, run:
+
[source,sh]
----
./bin/elasticsearch-geoip -s my/source/dir [-t target/directory]
----

. Serve the static database files from your directory. For example, you can use
Docker to serve the files from an nginx server:
+
[source,sh]
----
docker run -v my/source/dir:/usr/share/nginx/html:ro nginx
----

. Specify the service's endpoint URL in the
<<ingest-geoip-downloader-endpoint,`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`>> setting
of each node’s `elasticsearch.yml` file.
+
By default, {es} checks the endpoint for updates every three days. To use
another polling interval, use the <<cluster-update-settings,cluster update
settings API>> to set
<<ingest-geoip-downloader-poll-interval,`ingest.geoip.downloader.poll.interval`>>.

[[manually-update-geoip-databases]]
**Manually update your GeoIP2 databases**

. Use the <<cluster-update-settings,cluster update settings API>> to set
`ingest.geoip.downloader.enabled` to `false`. This disables automatic updates
that may overwrite your database changes. This also deletes all downloaded
databases.

. Download your `.mmdb` database files from the
http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2[MaxMind site].
+
You can also use custom city, country, and ASN `.mmdb` files. These files must
be uncompressed and use the respective `-City.mmdb`, `-Country.mmdb`, or
`-ASN.mmdb` extensions.

. On {ess} deployments upload database using
a {cloud}/ec-custom-bundles.html[custom bundle].

. On self-managed deployments copy the database files to `$ES_CONFIG/ingest-geoip`.

. In your `geoip` processors, configure the `database_file` parameter to use a
custom database file.

[[ingest-geoip-settings]]
===== Node Settings

The `geoip` processor supports the following setting:

`ingest.geoip.cache_size`::

    The maximum number of results that should be cached. Defaults to `1000`.

Note that these settings are node settings and apply to all `geoip` processors, i.e. there is one cache for all defined `geoip` processors.

[[geoip-cluster-settings]]
===== Cluster settings

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-enabled]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.enabled`::
(<<dynamic-cluster-setting,Dynamic>>, Boolean)
If `true`, {es} automatically downloads and manages updates for GeoIP2 databases
from the `ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`. If `false`, {es} does not download
updates and deletes all downloaded databases. Defaults to `true`.

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-eager-download]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.eager.download`::
(<<dynamic-cluster-setting,Dynamic>>, Boolean)
If `true`, {es} downloads GeoIP2 databases immediately, regardless of whether a
pipeline exists with a geoip processor. If `false`, {es} only begins downloading
the databases if a pipeline with a geoip processor exists or is added. Defaults
to `false`.

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-endpoint]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`::
(<<static-cluster-setting,Static>>, string)
Endpoint URL used to download updates for GeoIP2 databases. For example, `https://myDomain.com/overview.json`.
Defaults to `https://geoip.elastic.co/v1/database`. {es} stores downloaded database files in
each node's <<es-tmpdir,temporary directory>> at `$ES_TMPDIR/geoip-databases/<node_id>`.
Note that {es} will make a GET request to `${ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint}?elastic_geoip_service_tos=agree`,
expecting the list of metadata about databases typically found in `overview.json`.

[[ingest-geoip-downloader-poll-interval]]
`ingest.geoip.downloader.poll.interval`::
(<<dynamic-cluster-setting,Dynamic>>, <<time-units,time value>>)
How often {es} checks for GeoIP2 database updates at the
`ingest.geoip.downloader.endpoint`. Must be greater than `1d` (one day). Defaults
to `3d` (three days).
