docs/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-text.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "Semantic text"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/semantic-text.html
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.0
  serverless: ga
---

# Semantic text field type [semantic-text]

The `semantic_text` field type simplifies [semantic search](docs-content://solutions/search/semantic-search.md) by providing sensible defaults that automate most of the manual work typically required for vector search. Using `semantic_text`, you don't have to manually configure mappings, set up ingestion pipelines, or handle chunking. The field type automatically:

- Configures index mappings: Chooses the correct field type (`sparse_vector` or `dense_vector`), dimensions, similarity functions, and storage optimizations based on the {{infer}} endpoint.
- Generates embeddings during indexing: Automatically generates embeddings when you index documents, without requiring ingestion pipelines or {{infer}} processors.
- Handles chunking: Automatically chunks long text documents during indexing.

## Basic `semantic_text` mapping example

The following example creates an index mapping with a `semantic_text` field:

```console
PUT semantic-embeddings 
{
  "mappings": { 
    "properties": {
      "content": { 
        "type": "semantic_text" <1>
      }
    }
  }
}
```
% TEST[skip:Requires {{infer}} endpoint]

1. In this example, the `semantic_text` field uses a [default {{infer}} endpoint](./semantic-text-setup-configuration.md#default-and-preconfigured-endpoints) because the `inference_id` parameter isn't specified.

:::{tip}
For a complete example, refer to the [Semantic search with `semantic_text`](docs-content://solutions/search/semantic-search/semantic-search-semantic-text.md) tutorial.
::: 

## Overview

The `semantic_text` field type documentation is organized into reference content and how-to guides. 

### Reference

The [Reference](./semantic-text-reference.md) section provides technical reference content:

- [Parameters](./semantic-text-reference.md#semantic-text-params): Parameter descriptions for `semantic_text` fields.
- [{{infer-cap}} endpoints](./semantic-text-reference.md#configuring-inference-endpoints): Overview of {{infer}} endpoints used with `semantic_text` fields.
- [Chunking](./semantic-text-reference.md#chunking-behavior): How `semantic_text` automatically processes long text passages by generating smaller chunks.
- [Limitations](./semantic-text-reference.md#limitations): Current limitations of `semantic_text` fields.
- [Document count discrepancy](./semantic-text-reference.md#document-count-discrepancy): Understanding document counts in `_cat/indices` for indices with `semantic_text` fields.
- [Querying `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-search-retrieval.md#querying-semantic-text-fields): Supported query types for `semantic_text` fields.

### How-to guides

The [How-to guides](./semantic-text-how-tos.md) section organizes procedure descriptions and examples into the following guides:

- [Set up and configure `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-setup-configuration.md): Learn how to configure {{infer}} endpoints, including default and preconfigured options, ELSER on EIS, custom endpoints, and dedicated endpoints for ingestion and search operations.

- [Ingest data with `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-ingestions.md): Learn how to index pre-chunked content, use `copy_to` and multi-fields to collect values from multiple fields, and perform updates and partial updates to optimize ingestion costs.

- [Search and retrieve `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-search-retrieval.md): Learn how to query `semantic_text` fields, retrieve indexed chunks, return field embeddings, and highlight the most relevant fragments from search results.

Commit message:

Adds documentation for semantic_text auto pre-filtering
Adds documentation for automatic pre-filtering that was introduced
in #138989.

docs/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-text.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "Semantic text"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/semantic-text.html
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.0
  serverless: ga
---

# Semantic text field type [semantic-text]

The `semantic_text` field type simplifies [semantic search](docs-content://solutions/search/semantic-search.md) by providing sensible defaults that automate most of the manual work typically required for vector search. Using `semantic_text`, you don't have to manually configure mappings, set up ingestion pipelines, or handle chunking. The field type automatically:

- Configures index mappings: Chooses the correct field type (`sparse_vector` or `dense_vector`), dimensions, similarity functions, and storage optimizations based on the {{infer}} endpoint.
- Generates embeddings during indexing: Automatically generates embeddings when you index documents, without requiring ingestion pipelines or {{infer}} processors.
- Handles chunking: Automatically chunks long text documents during indexing.

## Basic `semantic_text` mapping example

The following example creates an index mapping with a `semantic_text` field:

```console
PUT semantic-embeddings 
{
  "mappings": { 
    "properties": {
      "content": { 
        "type": "semantic_text" <1>
      }
    }
  }
}
```
% TEST[skip:Requires {{infer}} endpoint]

1. In this example, the `semantic_text` field uses a [default {{infer}} endpoint](./semantic-text-setup-configuration.md#default-and-preconfigured-endpoints) because the `inference_id` parameter isn't specified.

:::{tip}
For a complete example, refer to the [Semantic search with `semantic_text`](docs-content://solutions/search/semantic-search/semantic-search-semantic-text.md) tutorial.
::: 

## Overview

The `semantic_text` field type documentation is organized into reference content and how-to guides. 

### Reference

The [Reference](./semantic-text-reference.md) section provides technical reference content:

- [Parameters](./semantic-text-reference.md#semantic-text-params): Parameter descriptions for `semantic_text` fields.
- [{{infer-cap}} endpoints](./semantic-text-reference.md#configuring-inference-endpoints): Overview of {{infer}} endpoints used with `semantic_text` fields.
- [Chunking](./semantic-text-reference.md#chunking-behavior): How `semantic_text` automatically processes long text passages by generating smaller chunks.
- [Automatic pre-filtering for dense vector embeddings](./semantic-text-reference.md#auto-prefiltering): How other queries are applied as pre-filters to ensure the number of requested documents is returned.
- [Limitations](./semantic-text-reference.md#limitations): Current limitations of `semantic_text` fields.
- [Document count discrepancy](./semantic-text-reference.md#document-count-discrepancy): Understanding document counts in `_cat/indices` for indices with `semantic_text` fields.
- [Querying `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-search-retrieval.md#querying-semantic-text-fields): Supported query types for `semantic_text` fields.

### How-to guides

The [How-to guides](./semantic-text-how-tos.md) section organizes procedure descriptions and examples into the following guides:

- [Set up and configure `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-setup-configuration.md): Learn how to configure {{infer}} endpoints, including default and preconfigured options, ELSER on EIS, custom endpoints, and dedicated endpoints for ingestion and search operations.

- [Ingest data with `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-ingestions.md): Learn how to index pre-chunked content, use `copy_to` and multi-fields to collect values from multiple fields, and perform updates and partial updates to optimize ingestion costs.

- [Search and retrieve `semantic_text` fields](./semantic-text-search-retrieval.md): Learn how to query `semantic_text` fields, retrieve indexed chunks, return field embeddings, and highlight the most relevant fragments from search results.
