docs/reference/commands/keystore.asciidoc, before:

[[elasticsearch-keystore]]
== elasticsearch-keystore

The `elasticsearch-keystore` command manages <<secure-settings,secure settings>>
in the {es} keystore.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-synopsis]]
=== Synopsis

[source,shell]
--------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore
( [add <settings>] [-f] [--stdin]
| [add-file (<setting> <path>)+]
| [create] [-p]
| [has-passwd]
| [list]
| [passwd]
| [remove <setting>]
| [show [-o <output-file>] <setting>]
| [upgrade]
) [-h, --help] ([-s, --silent] | [-v, --verbose])
--------------------------------------------------

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-description]]
=== Description

IMPORTANT: This command should be run as the user that will run {es}.

Currently, all secure settings are node-specific settings that must have the
same value on every node. Therefore you must run this command on every node.

When the keystore is password-protected, you must supply the password each time
{es} starts.

Modifications to the keystore are not automatically applied to the running {es}
node.
Any changes to the keystore will take effect when you restart {es}.
Some secure settings can be explicitly <<reloadable-secure-settings, reloaded>>
without restart.

Only some settings are designed to be read from the keystore. However, there
is no validation to block unsupported settings from the keystore and they can
cause {es} to fail to start. To see whether a setting is supported in the
keystore, see the setting reference.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-parameters]]
=== Parameters

`add <settings>`:: Adds settings to the keystore. Multiple setting names can be
specified as arguments to the `add` command. By default, you are prompted for
the values of the settings. If the keystore is password protected, you are also
prompted to enter the password. If a setting already exists in the keystore, you
must confirm that you want to overwrite the current value. If the keystore does
not exist, you must confirm that you want to create a keystore. To avoid these
two confirmation prompts, use the `-f` parameter.

`add-file (<setting> <path>)+`:: Adds files to the keystore.

`create`:: Creates the keystore.

`-f, --force`:: When used with the `add` parameter, the command no longer prompts you
before overwriting existing entries in the keystore. Also, if you haven't
created a keystore yet, it creates a keystore that is obfuscated but not
password protected.

`-h, --help`:: Returns all of the command parameters.

`has-passwd`:: Returns a success message if the keystore exists and is
password-protected. Otherwise, the command fails with exit code 1 and returns an
error message.

`list`:: Lists the settings in the keystore. If the keystore is password
protected, you are prompted to enter the password.

`-p`:: When used with the `create` parameter, the command prompts you to enter a
keystore password. If you don't specify the `-p` flag or if you enter an empty
password, the keystore is obfuscated but not password protected.

`passwd`:: Changes or sets the keystore password. If the keystore is password
protected, you are prompted to enter the current password and the new one. You
can optionally use an empty string to remove the password. If the keystore is
not password protected, you can use this command to set a password.

`remove <settings>`:: Removes settings from the keystore. Multiple setting
names can be specified as arguments to the `remove` command.

`show <setting>`:: Displays the value of a single setting in the keystore.
Pass the `-o` (or `--output`) parameter to write the setting to a file.
If writing to the standard output (the terminal) the setting's value is always
interpreted as a UTF-8 string. If the setting contains binary data (for example
for data that was added via the `add-file` command), always use the `-o` option
to write to a file.

`-s, --silent`:: Shows minimal output.

`-x, --stdin`:: When used with the `add` parameter, you can pass the settings values
through standard input (stdin). Separate multiple values with carriage returns
or newlines. See <<add-string-to-keystore>>.

`upgrade`:: Upgrades the internal format of the keystore.

`-v, --verbose`:: Shows verbose output.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-examples]]
=== Examples

[discrete]
[[creating-keystore]]
==== Create the keystore

To create the `elasticsearch.keystore`, use the `create` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore create -p
----------------------------------------------------------------

You are prompted to enter the keystore password. A password-protected
`elasticsearch.keystore` file is created alongside the `elasticsearch.yml` file.

[discrete]
[[changing-keystore-password]]
==== Change the password of the keystore

To change the password of the `elasticsearch.keystore`, use the `passwd` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore passwd
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
current password and then enter the new one. If it is not password protected,
you are prompted to set a password.

[discrete]
[[list-settings]]
==== List settings in the keystore

To list the settings in the keystore, use the `list` command.

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore list
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[add-string-to-keystore]]
==== Add settings to the keystore

Sensitive string settings, like authentication credentials for Cloud plugins,
can be added with the `add` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add the.setting.name.to.set
----------------------------------------------------------------

You are prompted to enter the value of the setting. If the {es} keystore is
password protected, you are also prompted to enter the password.

You can also add multiple settings with the `add` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add \
  the.setting.name.to.set \
  the.other.setting.name.to.set
----------------------------------------------------------------

You are prompted to enter the values of the settings. If the {es} keystore is
password protected, you are also prompted to enter the password.

To pass the settings values through standard input (stdin), use the `--stdin`
flag:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
cat /file/containing/setting/value | bin/elasticsearch-keystore add --stdin the.setting.name.to.set
----------------------------------------------------------------

Values for multiple settings must be separated by carriage returns or newlines.

[discrete]
[[add-file-to-keystore]]
==== Add files to the keystore

You can add sensitive files, like authentication key files for Cloud plugins,
using the `add-file` command. Settings and file paths are specified in pairs
consisting of `setting path`.

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add-file the.setting.name.to.set /path/example-file.json
----------------------------------------------------------------

You can add multiple files with the `add-file` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add-file \
  the.setting.name.to.set /path/example-file.json \
  the.other.setting.name.to.set /path/other-example-file.json
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[show-keystore-value]]
==== Show settings in the keystore

To display the value of a setting in the keystore use the `show` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore show the.name.of.the.setting.to.show
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the setting contains binary data you should write it to a file with the
`-o` (or `--output`) option:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore show -o my_file binary.setting.name
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[remove-settings]]
==== Remove settings from the keystore

To remove a setting from the keystore, use the `remove` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore remove the.setting.name.to.remove
----------------------------------------------------------------

You can also remove multiple settings with the `remove` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore remove \
  the.setting.name.to.remove \
  the.other.setting.name.to.remove
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[keystore-upgrade]]
==== Upgrade the keystore

Occasionally, the internal format of the keystore changes. When {es} is
installed from a package manager, an upgrade of the on-disk keystore to the new
format is done during package upgrade. In other cases, {es} performs the upgrade
during node startup. This requires that {es} has write permissions to the
directory that contains the keystore. Alternatively, you can manually perform
such an upgrade by using the `upgrade` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore upgrade
----------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Clarify keystore add-file command behavior
This commit adds a little more explanation to what add-file does on the
keystore.

relates #97459

docs/reference/commands/keystore.asciidoc, after:

[[elasticsearch-keystore]]
== elasticsearch-keystore

The `elasticsearch-keystore` command manages <<secure-settings,secure settings>>
in the {es} keystore.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-synopsis]]
=== Synopsis

[source,shell]
--------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore
( [add <settings>] [-f] [--stdin]
| [add-file (<setting> <path>)+]
| [create] [-p]
| [has-passwd]
| [list]
| [passwd]
| [remove <setting>]
| [show [-o <output-file>] <setting>]
| [upgrade]
) [-h, --help] ([-s, --silent] | [-v, --verbose])
--------------------------------------------------

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-description]]
=== Description

IMPORTANT: This command should be run as the user that will run {es}.

Currently, all secure settings are node-specific settings that must have the
same value on every node. Therefore you must run this command on every node.

When the keystore is password-protected, you must supply the password each time
{es} starts.

Modifications to the keystore are not automatically applied to the running {es}
node.
Any changes to the keystore will take effect when you restart {es}.
Some secure settings can be explicitly <<reloadable-secure-settings, reloaded>>
without restart.

Only some settings are designed to be read from the keystore. However, there
is no validation to block unsupported settings from the keystore and they can
cause {es} to fail to start. To see whether a setting is supported in the
keystore, see the setting reference.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-parameters]]
=== Parameters

`add <settings>`:: Adds settings to the keystore. Multiple setting names can be
specified as arguments to the `add` command. By default, you are prompted for
the values of the settings. If the keystore is password protected, you are also
prompted to enter the password. If a setting already exists in the keystore, you
must confirm that you want to overwrite the current value. If the keystore does
not exist, you must confirm that you want to create a keystore. To avoid these
two confirmation prompts, use the `-f` parameter.

`add-file (<setting> <path>)+`:: Adds files to the keystore.

`create`:: Creates the keystore.

`-f, --force`:: When used with the `add` parameter, the command no longer prompts you
before overwriting existing entries in the keystore. Also, if you haven't
created a keystore yet, it creates a keystore that is obfuscated but not
password protected.

`-h, --help`:: Returns all of the command parameters.

`has-passwd`:: Returns a success message if the keystore exists and is
password-protected. Otherwise, the command fails with exit code 1 and returns an
error message.

`list`:: Lists the settings in the keystore. If the keystore is password
protected, you are prompted to enter the password.

`-p`:: When used with the `create` parameter, the command prompts you to enter a
keystore password. If you don't specify the `-p` flag or if you enter an empty
password, the keystore is obfuscated but not password protected.

`passwd`:: Changes or sets the keystore password. If the keystore is password
protected, you are prompted to enter the current password and the new one. You
can optionally use an empty string to remove the password. If the keystore is
not password protected, you can use this command to set a password.

`remove <settings>`:: Removes settings from the keystore. Multiple setting
names can be specified as arguments to the `remove` command.

`show <setting>`:: Displays the value of a single setting in the keystore.
Pass the `-o` (or `--output`) parameter to write the setting to a file.
If writing to the standard output (the terminal) the setting's value is always
interpreted as a UTF-8 string. If the setting contains binary data (for example
for data that was added via the `add-file` command), always use the `-o` option
to write to a file.

`-s, --silent`:: Shows minimal output.

`-x, --stdin`:: When used with the `add` parameter, you can pass the settings values
through standard input (stdin). Separate multiple values with carriage returns
or newlines. See <<add-string-to-keystore>>.

`upgrade`:: Upgrades the internal format of the keystore.

`-v, --verbose`:: Shows verbose output.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-keystore-examples]]
=== Examples

[discrete]
[[creating-keystore]]
==== Create the keystore

To create the `elasticsearch.keystore`, use the `create` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore create -p
----------------------------------------------------------------

You are prompted to enter the keystore password. A password-protected
`elasticsearch.keystore` file is created alongside the `elasticsearch.yml` file.

[discrete]
[[changing-keystore-password]]
==== Change the password of the keystore

To change the password of the `elasticsearch.keystore`, use the `passwd` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore passwd
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
current password and then enter the new one. If it is not password protected,
you are prompted to set a password.

[discrete]
[[list-settings]]
==== List settings in the keystore

To list the settings in the keystore, use the `list` command.

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore list
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[add-string-to-keystore]]
==== Add settings to the keystore

Sensitive string settings, like authentication credentials for Cloud plugins,
can be added with the `add` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add the.setting.name.to.set
----------------------------------------------------------------

You are prompted to enter the value of the setting. If the {es} keystore is
password protected, you are also prompted to enter the password.

You can also add multiple settings with the `add` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add \
  the.setting.name.to.set \
  the.other.setting.name.to.set
----------------------------------------------------------------

You are prompted to enter the values of the settings. If the {es} keystore is
password protected, you are also prompted to enter the password.

To pass the settings values through standard input (stdin), use the `--stdin`
flag:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
cat /file/containing/setting/value | bin/elasticsearch-keystore add --stdin the.setting.name.to.set
----------------------------------------------------------------

Values for multiple settings must be separated by carriage returns or newlines.

[discrete]
[[add-file-to-keystore]]
==== Add files to the keystore

You can add sensitive files, like authentication key files for Cloud plugins,
using the `add-file` command. Settings and file paths are specified in pairs
consisting of `setting path`. The value of the setting will be the binary contents
of the file path at the time the file is added to the keystore.

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add-file the.setting.name.to.set /path/example-file.json
----------------------------------------------------------------

You can add multiple files with the `add-file` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add-file \
  the.setting.name.to.set /path/example-file.json \
  the.other.setting.name.to.set /path/other-example-file.json
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[show-keystore-value]]
==== Show settings in the keystore

To display the value of a setting in the keystore use the `show` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore show the.name.of.the.setting.to.show
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the setting contains binary data you should write it to a file with the
`-o` (or `--output`) option:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore show -o my_file binary.setting.name
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[remove-settings]]
==== Remove settings from the keystore

To remove a setting from the keystore, use the `remove` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore remove the.setting.name.to.remove
----------------------------------------------------------------

You can also remove multiple settings with the `remove` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore remove \
  the.setting.name.to.remove \
  the.other.setting.name.to.remove
----------------------------------------------------------------

If the {es} keystore is password protected, you are prompted to enter the
password.

[discrete]
[[keystore-upgrade]]
==== Upgrade the keystore

Occasionally, the internal format of the keystore changes. When {es} is
installed from a package manager, an upgrade of the on-disk keystore to the new
format is done during package upgrade. In other cases, {es} performs the upgrade
during node startup. This requires that {es} has write permissions to the
directory that contains the keystore. Alternatively, you can manually perform
such an upgrade by using the `upgrade` command:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore upgrade
----------------------------------------------------------------
