docs/reference/modules/cross-cluster-search.asciidoc, before:

[[modules-cross-cluster-search]]
== Cross Cluster Search

The _cross cluster search_ feature allows any node to act as a federated client across
multiple clusters. A cross cluster search node won't join the remote cluster, instead
it connects to a remote cluster in a light fashion in order to execute
federated search requests.

[float]
=== Using cross cluster search

Cross-cluster search requires <<modules-remote-clusters,configuring remote clusters>>.

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster": {
      "remote": {
        "cluster_one": {
          "seeds": [
            "127.0.0.1:9300"
          ]
        },
        "cluster_two": {
          "seeds": [
            "127.0.0.1:9301"
          ]
        },
        "cluster_three": {
          "seeds": [
            "127.0.0.1:9302"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:host]
// TEST[s/127.0.0.1:9300/\${transport_host}/]

To search the `twitter` index on remote cluster `cluster_one` the index name
must be prefixed with the cluster alias separated by a `:` character:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /cluster_one:twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]
// TEST[setup:twitter]

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took": 150,
  "timed_out": false,
  "num_reduce_phases": 2,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "failed": 0,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "_clusters": {
    "ccs_reduce_mode": "remote",
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total" : {
        "value": 1,
        "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "cluster_one:twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 150/"took": "$body.took"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score": 1/"max_score": "$body.hits.max_score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 1/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.0._score"/]


Indices can also be searched with the same name on different clusters:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /cluster_one:twitter,twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Search results are disambiguated the same way as the indices are disambiguated in the request. Even if index names are
identical these indices will be treated as different indices when results are merged. All results retrieved from a
remote index
will be prefixed with their remote cluster name:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took": 150,
  "timed_out": false,
  "num_reduce_phases": 3,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 2,
    "successful": 2,
    "failed": 0,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "_clusters": {
    "ccs_reduce_mode": "remote",
    "total": 2,
    "successful": 2,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total" : {
        "value": 2,
        "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "cluster_one:twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 2,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 150/"took": "$body.took"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score": 1/"max_score": "$body.hits.max_score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 1/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.0._score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 2/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.1._score"/]

[float]
=== Skipping disconnected clusters

By default all remote clusters that are searched via Cross Cluster Search need to be available when
the search request is executed, otherwise the whole request fails and no search results are returned
despite some of the clusters are available. Remote clusters can be made optional through the
boolean `skip_unavailable` setting, set to `false` by default.

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster.remote.cluster_two.skip_unavailable": true <1>
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]
<1> `cluster_two` is made optional

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /cluster_one:twitter,cluster_two:twitter,twitter/_search <1>
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]
<1> Search against the `twitter` index in `cluster_one`, `cluster_two` and also locally

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took": 150,
  "timed_out": false,
  "num_reduce_phases": 3,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 2,
    "successful": 2,
    "failed": 0,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "_clusters": { <1>
    "ccs_reduce_mode": "remote",
    "total": 3,
    "successful": 2,
    "skipped": 1
  },
  "hits": {
    "total" : {
        "value": 2,
        "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "cluster_one:twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 2,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 150/"took": "$body.took"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score": 1/"max_score": "$body.hits.max_score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 1/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.0._score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 2/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.1._score"/]
<1> The `clusters` section indicates that one cluster was unavailable and got skipped

[float]
[[ccs-reduce-mode]]
=== Reduce mode

When searching across remote clusters, there are two possible reduce modes:

- `remote`: the coordinating node sends one search request to each cluster.
Each cluster performs the search independently, reducing and fetching results
which are then returned to the caller. Once the CCS node has received all the
responses, it performs another reduction and returns the relevant results back
to the user. The `remote` reduce mode is beneficial when there is network
latency between the coordinating node and the remote clusters involved, which
is typically the case. A single request is sent to each remote cluster, at the
cost of retrieving `from` + `size` already fetched results.

- `local`: the coordinating node sends a <<search-shards,search shards>>
request to each remote cluster, in order to collect information about their
corresponding remote indices involved in the search request and the shards
where their data is located. Once each cluster has responded to such request,
the search executes as if all shards were part of the same cluster. The
coordinating node sends one request to each shard involved, each shard
executes the query and returns its own results which are then reduced (and
fetched, depending on the <<search-request-search-type, search type>>) by the
coordinating node. The `local` reduce mode is beneficial whenever there is very
 low network latency between the coordinating node and the remote clusters
 involved, as it treats all shards the same, at the cost of sending many
 requests to each remote cluster.

By default `remote` is used whenever possible. In case a scroll is provided,
or inner hits are requested as part of field collapsing, `local` is used
instead. The <<search-request-body, search API>> supports the `ccs_reduce_mode`
parameter which allows to select the reduce mode if needed. The reduce mode
that was used for a cross-cluster search request is returned as part of the
`_clusters` section.

Note that all the communication between the nodes, regardless of which cluster
they belong to and the selected reduce mode, happens through the
<<modules-transport,transport layer>>.

Commit message:

add auto ccs_reduce_mode

docs/reference/modules/cross-cluster-search.asciidoc, after:

[[modules-cross-cluster-search]]
== Cross Cluster Search

The _cross cluster search_ feature allows any node to act as a federated client across
multiple clusters. A cross cluster search node won't join the remote cluster, instead
it connects to a remote cluster in a light fashion in order to execute
federated search requests.

[float]
=== Using cross cluster search

Cross-cluster search requires <<modules-remote-clusters,configuring remote clusters>>.

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster": {
      "remote": {
        "cluster_one": {
          "seeds": [
            "127.0.0.1:9300"
          ]
        },
        "cluster_two": {
          "seeds": [
            "127.0.0.1:9301"
          ]
        },
        "cluster_three": {
          "seeds": [
            "127.0.0.1:9302"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:host]
// TEST[s/127.0.0.1:9300/\${transport_host}/]

To search the `twitter` index on remote cluster `cluster_one` the index name
must be prefixed with the cluster alias separated by a `:` character:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /cluster_one:twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]
// TEST[setup:twitter]

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took": 150,
  "timed_out": false,
  "num_reduce_phases": 2,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "failed": 0,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "_clusters": {
    "ccs_reduce_mode": "remote",
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total" : {
        "value": 1,
        "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "cluster_one:twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 150/"took": "$body.took"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score": 1/"max_score": "$body.hits.max_score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 1/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.0._score"/]


Indices can also be searched with the same name on different clusters:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /cluster_one:twitter,twitter/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Search results are disambiguated the same way as the indices are disambiguated in the request. Even if index names are
identical these indices will be treated as different indices when results are merged. All results retrieved from a
remote index
will be prefixed with their remote cluster name:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took": 150,
  "timed_out": false,
  "num_reduce_phases": 3,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 2,
    "successful": 2,
    "failed": 0,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "_clusters": {
    "ccs_reduce_mode": "remote",
    "total": 2,
    "successful": 2,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total" : {
        "value": 2,
        "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "cluster_one:twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 2,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 150/"took": "$body.took"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score": 1/"max_score": "$body.hits.max_score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 1/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.0._score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 2/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.1._score"/]

[float]
=== Skipping disconnected clusters

By default all remote clusters that are searched via Cross Cluster Search need to be available when
the search request is executed, otherwise the whole request fails and no search results are returned
despite some of the clusters are available. Remote clusters can be made optional through the
boolean `skip_unavailable` setting, set to `false` by default.

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster.remote.cluster_two.skip_unavailable": true <1>
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]
<1> `cluster_two` is made optional

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /cluster_one:twitter,cluster_two:twitter,twitter/_search <1>
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "user": "kimchy"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]
<1> Search against the `twitter` index in `cluster_one`, `cluster_two` and also locally

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took": 150,
  "timed_out": false,
  "num_reduce_phases": 3,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 2,
    "successful": 2,
    "failed": 0,
    "skipped": 0
  },
  "_clusters": { <1>
    "ccs_reduce_mode": "remote",
    "total": 3,
    "successful": 2,
    "skipped": 1
  },
  "hits": {
    "total" : {
        "value": 2,
        "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "cluster_one:twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "twitter",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "0",
        "_score": 2,
        "_source": {
          "user": "kimchy",
          "date": "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
          "message": "trying out Elasticsearch",
          "likes": 0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 150/"took": "$body.took"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score": 1/"max_score": "$body.hits.max_score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 1/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.0._score"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score": 2/"_score": "$body.hits.hits.1._score"/]
<1> The `clusters` section indicates that one cluster was unavailable and got skipped

[float]
[[ccs-reduce-mode]]
=== Reduce mode

When searching across remote clusters, the execution path may differ depending
on the selected reduce mode:

- `remote`: the coordinating node sends one search request to each cluster.
Each cluster performs the search independently, reducing and fetching results
which are then returned to the caller. Once the CCS node has received all the
responses, it performs another reduction and returns the relevant results back
to the user. The `remote` reduce mode is beneficial when there is network
latency between the coordinating node and the remote clusters involved, which
is typically the case. A single request is sent to each remote cluster, at the
cost of retrieving `from` + `size` already fetched results.

- `local`: the coordinating node sends a <<search-shards,search shards>>
request to each remote cluster, in order to collect information about their
corresponding remote indices involved in the search request and the shards
where their data is located. Once each cluster has responded to such request,
the search executes as if all shards were part of the same cluster. The
coordinating node sends one request to each shard involved, each shard
executes the query and returns its own results which are then reduced (and
fetched, depending on the <<search-request-search-type, search type>>) by the
coordinating node. The `local` reduce mode is beneficial whenever there is very
 low network latency between the coordinating node and the remote clusters
 involved, as it treats all shards the same, at the cost of sending many
 requests to each remote cluster.

- `auto`: `remote` is used whenever possible. In case a scroll is provided,
or inner hits are requested as part of field collapsing, `local` is used
instead. This is the default reduce mode.

The <<search-request-body, search API>> supports the `ccs_reduce_mode`
parameter which allows to select the reduce mode if needed. The reduce mode
that was used for a cross-cluster search request is returned as part of the
`_clusters` section, which will either be `remote` or `local`.

Note that all the communication between the nodes, regardless of which cluster
they belong to and the selected reduce mode, happens through the
<<modules-transport,transport layer>>.
