docs/reference/modules/plugins.asciidoc, before:

[[modules-plugins]]
== Plugins

[float]
=== Plugins

Plugins are a way to enhance the basic elasticsearch functionality in a
custom manner. They range from adding custom mapping types, custom
analyzers (in a more built in fashion), native scripts, custom discovery
and more.

[float]
[[installing]]
==== Installing plugins

Installing plugins can either be done manually by placing them under the
`plugins` directory, or using the `plugin` script. Several plugins can
be found under the https://github.com/elasticsearch[elasticsearch]
organization in GitHub, starting with `elasticsearch-`.

Installing plugins typically take the following form:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
plugin --install <org>/<user/component>/<version>
-----------------------------------

The plugins will be
automatically downloaded in this case from `download.elasticsearch.org`,
and in case they don't exist there, from maven (central and sonatype).

Note that when the plugin is located in maven central or sonatype
repository, `<org>` is the artifact `groupId` and `<user/component>` is
the `artifactId`.

A plugin can also be installed directly by specifying the URL for it,
for example:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
bin/plugin --url file:///path/to/plugin --install plugin-name
-----------------------------------


You can run `bin/plugin -h`.

[float]
[[site-plugins]]
==== Site Plugins

Plugins can have "sites" in them, any plugin that exists under the
`plugins` directory with a `_site` directory, its content will be
statically served when hitting `/_plugin/[plugin_name]/` url. Those can
be added even after the process has started.

Installed plugins that do not contain any java related content, will
automatically be detected as site plugins, and their content will be
moved under `_site`.

The ability to install plugins from Github allows to easily install site
plugins hosted there by downloading the actual repo, for example,
running:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head
bin/plugin --install lukas-vlcek/bigdesk
--------------------------------------------------

Will install both of those site plugins, with `elasticsearch-head`
available under `http://localhost:9200/_plugin/head/` and `bigdesk`
available under `http://localhost:9200/_plugin/bigdesk/`.

[float]
==== Mandatory Plugins

If you rely on some plugins, you can define mandatory plugins using the
`plugin.mandatory` attribute, for example, here is a sample config:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
plugin.mandatory: mapper-attachments,lang-groovy
--------------------------------------------------

For safety reasons, if a mandatory plugin is not installed, the node
will not start.

[float]
==== Installed Plugins

A list of the currently loaded plugins can be retrieved using the
<<cluster-nodes-info,Node Info API>>.

[float]
==== Removing plugins

Removing plugins can either be done manually by removing them under the
`plugins` directory, or using the `plugin` script.

Removing plugins typically take the following form:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
plugin --remove <pluginname>
-----------------------------------

[float]
==== Silent/Verbose mode

When running the `plugin` script, you can get more information (debug mode) using `--verbose`.
On the opposite, if you want `plugin` script to be silent, use `--silent` option.

Note that exit codes could be:

* `0`: everything was OK
* `64`: unknown command or incorrect option parameter
* `74`: IO error
* `70`: other errors

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --verbose
plugin --remove head --silent
-----------------------------------

[float]
==== Timeout settings

By default, the `plugin` script will wait indefinitely when downloading before failing.
The timeout parameter can be used to explicitly specify how long it waits. Here is some examples of setting it to
different values:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
# Wait for 30 seconds before failing
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --timeout 30s

# Wait for 1 minute before failing
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --timeout 1m

# Wait forever (default)
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --timeout 0
-----------------------------------

[float]
==== Lucene version dependent plugins

added[1.2.0]

For some plugins, such as analysis plugins, a specific major Lucene version is
required to run. In that case, the plugin provides in its `es-plugin.properties`
file the Lucene version for which the plugin was built for.

If present at startup the node will check the Lucene version before loading the plugin.

You can disable that check using `plugins.check_lucene: false`.

[float]
[[known-plugins]]
=== Known Plugins

[float]
[[analysis-plugins]]
==== Analysis Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-icu[ICU Analysis plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-kuromoji[Japanese (Kuromoji) Analysis plugin].
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-smartcn[Smart Chinese Analysis Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-stempel[Stempel (Polish) Analysis plugin]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/barminator/elasticsearch-analysis-annotation[Annotation Analysis Plugin] (by Michal Samek)
* https://github.com/yakaz/elasticsearch-analysis-combo/[Combo Analysis Plugin] (by Olivier Favre, Yakaz)
* https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-analysis-hunspell[Hunspell Analysis Plugin] (by Jörg Prante)
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-ik[IK Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)
* https://github.com/suguru/elasticsearch-analysis-japanese[Japanese Analysis plugin] (by suguru).
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-mmseg[Mmseg Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)
* https://github.com/chytreg/elasticsearch-analysis-morfologik[Morfologik (Polish) Analysis plugin] (by chytreg)
* https://github.com/imotov/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology[Russian and English Morphological Analysis Plugin] (by Igor Motov)
* https://github.com/synhershko/elasticsearch-analysis-hebrew[Hebrew Analysis Plugin] (by Itamar Syn-Hershko)
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-pinyin[Pinyin Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-string2int[String2Integer Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)

[float]
[[discovery-plugins]]
==== Discovery Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-aws[AWS Cloud Plugin] - EC2 discovery and S3 Repository
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-azure[Azure Cloud Plugin] - Azure discovery
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-gce[Google Compute Engine Cloud Plugin] - GCE discovery

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/shikhar/eskka[eskka Discovery Plugin] (by Shikhar Bhushan)

[float]
[[river]]
==== River Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-couchdb[CouchDB River Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-rabbitmq[RabbitMQ River Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-twitter[Twitter River Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-wikipedia[Wikipedia River Plugin]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/domdorn/elasticsearch-river-activemq/[ActiveMQ River Plugin] (by Dominik Dorn)
* https://github.com/albogdano/elasticsearch-river-amazonsqs[Amazon SQS River Plugin] (by Alex Bogdanovski)
* https://github.com/xxBedy/elasticsearch-river-csv[CSV River Plugin] (by Martin Bednar)
* http://www.pilato.fr/dropbox/[Dropbox River Plugin] (by David Pilato)
* http://www.pilato.fr/fsriver/[FileSystem River Plugin] (by David Pilato)
* https://github.com/obazoud/elasticsearch-river-git[Git River Plugin] (by Olivier Bazoud)
* https://github.com/uberVU/elasticsearch-river-github[GitHub River Plugin] (by uberVU)
* https://github.com/sksamuel/elasticsearch-river-hazelcast[Hazelcast River Plugin] (by Steve Samuel)
* https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-river-jdbc[JDBC River Plugin] (by Jörg Prante)
* https://github.com/qotho/elasticsearch-river-jms[JMS River Plugin] (by Steve Sarandos)
* https://github.com/endgameinc/elasticsearch-river-kafka[Kafka River Plugin] (by Endgame Inc.)
* https://github.com/tlrx/elasticsearch-river-ldap[LDAP River Plugin] (by Tanguy Leroux)
* https://github.com/richardwilly98/elasticsearch-river-mongodb/[MongoDB River Plugin] (by Richard Louapre)
* https://github.com/sksamuel/elasticsearch-river-neo4j[Neo4j River Plugin] (by Steve Samuel)
* https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-river-oai/[Open Archives Initiative (OAI) River Plugin] (by Jörg Prante)
* https://github.com/sksamuel/elasticsearch-river-redis[Redis River Plugin] (by Steve Samuel)
* http://dadoonet.github.com/rssriver/[RSS River Plugin] (by David Pilato)
* https://github.com/adamlofts/elasticsearch-river-sofa[Sofa River Plugin] (by adamlofts)
* https://github.com/javanna/elasticsearch-river-solr/[Solr River Plugin] (by Luca Cavanna)
* https://github.com/sunnygleason/elasticsearch-river-st9[St9 River Plugin] (by Sunny Gleason)
* https://github.com/plombard/SubversionRiver[Subversion River Plugin] (by Pascal Lombard)
* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-river-dynamodb[DynamoDB River Plugin] (by Kevin Wang)
* https://github.com/salyh/elasticsearch-river-imap[IMAP/POP3 Email River Plugin] (by Hendrik Saly)
* https://github.com/codelibs/elasticsearch-river-web[Web River Plugin] (by CodeLibs Project)
* https://github.com/eea/eea.elasticsearch.river.rdf[EEA ElasticSearch RDF River Plugin] (by the European Environment Agency)

[float]
[[transport]]
==== Transport Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-memcached[Memcached transport plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-thrift[Thrift Transport]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-wares[Servlet transport]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/tlrx/transport-zeromq[ZeroMQ transport layer plugin] (by Tanguy Leroux)
* https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-jetty[Jetty HTTP transport plugin] (by Sonian Inc.)
* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-transport-redis[Redis transport plugin] (by Kevin Wang)

[float]
[[scripting]]
==== Scripting Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/hiredman/elasticsearch-lang-clojure[Clojure Language Plugin] (by Kevin Downey)
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-groovy[Groovy lang Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-javascript[JavaScript language Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-python[Python language Plugin]

[float]
[[site]]
==== Site Plugins

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/lukas-vlcek/bigdesk[BigDesk Plugin] (by Lukáš Vlček)
* https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head[Elasticsearch Head Plugin] (by Ben Birch)
* https://github.com/royrusso/elasticsearch-HQ[Elasticsearch HQ] (by Roy Russo)
* https://github.com/andrewvc/elastic-hammer[Hammer Plugin] (by Andrew Cholakian)
* https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-inquisitor[Inquisitor Plugin] (by Zachary Tong)
* https://github.com/karmi/elasticsearch-paramedic[Paramedic Plugin] (by Karel Minařík)
* https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-segmentspy[SegmentSpy Plugin] (by Zachary Tong)
* https://github.com/xyu/elasticsearch-whatson[Whatson Plugin] (by Xiao Yu)

[float]
[[repository-plugins]]
==== Snapshot/Restore Repository Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch

* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-hadoop/tree/master/repository-hdfs[Hadoop HDFS] Repository
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-aws#s3-repository[AWS S3] Repository

.Supported by the community

* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-repository-gridfs[GridFS] Repository (by Kevin Wang)

[float]
[[misc]]
==== Misc Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-mapper-attachments[Mapper Attachments Type plugin]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/carrot2/elasticsearch-carrot2[carrot2 Plugin]: Results clustering with carrot2 (by Dawid Weiss)
* https://github.com/derryx/elasticsearch-changes-plugin[Elasticsearch Changes Plugin] (by Thomas Peuss)
* https://github.com/johtani/elasticsearch-extended-analyze[Extended Analyze Plugin] (by Jun Ohtani)
* https://github.com/spinscale/elasticsearch-graphite-plugin[Elasticsearch Graphite Plugin] (by Alexander Reelsen)
* https://github.com/mattweber/elasticsearch-mocksolrplugin[Elasticsearch Mock Solr Plugin] (by Matt Weber)
* https://github.com/viniciusccarvalho/elasticsearch-newrelic[Elasticsearch New Relic Plugin] (by Vinicius Carvalho)
* https://github.com/swoop-inc/elasticsearch-statsd-plugin[Elasticsearch Statsd Plugin] (by Swoop Inc.)
* https://github.com/endgameinc/elasticsearch-term-plugin[Terms Component Plugin] (by Endgame Inc.)
* http://tlrx.github.com/elasticsearch-view-plugin[Elasticsearch View Plugin] (by Tanguy Leroux)
* https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-zookeeper[ZooKeeper Discovery Plugin] (by Sonian Inc.)
* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-image[Elasticsearch Image Plugin] (by Kevin Wang)
* https://github.com/wikimedia/search-highlighter[Elasticsearch Experimental Highlighter] (by Wikimedia Foundation/Nik Everett)
* https://github.com/salyh/elasticsearch-security-plugin[Elasticsearch Security Plugin] (by Hendrik Saly)
* https://github.com/codelibs/elasticsearch-taste[Elasticsearch Taste Plugin] (by CodeLibs Project)
* http://siren.solutions/siren/downloads/[Elasticsearch SIREn Plugin]: Nested data search (by SIREn Solutions)

Commit message:

add Proxy setting for using plugin command

docs/reference/modules/plugins.asciidoc, after:

[[modules-plugins]]
== Plugins

[float]
=== Plugins

Plugins are a way to enhance the basic elasticsearch functionality in a
custom manner. They range from adding custom mapping types, custom
analyzers (in a more built in fashion), native scripts, custom discovery
and more.

[float]
[[installing]]
==== Installing plugins

Installing plugins can either be done manually by placing them under the
`plugins` directory, or using the `plugin` script. Several plugins can
be found under the https://github.com/elasticsearch[elasticsearch]
organization in GitHub, starting with `elasticsearch-`.

Installing plugins typically take the following form:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
plugin --install <org>/<user/component>/<version>
-----------------------------------

The plugins will be
automatically downloaded in this case from `download.elasticsearch.org`,
and in case they don't exist there, from maven (central and sonatype).

Note that when the plugin is located in maven central or sonatype
repository, `<org>` is the artifact `groupId` and `<user/component>` is
the `artifactId`.

A plugin can also be installed directly by specifying the URL for it,
for example:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
bin/plugin --url file:///path/to/plugin --install plugin-name
-----------------------------------


You can run `bin/plugin -h`.

[float]
[[site-plugins]]
==== Site Plugins

Plugins can have "sites" in them, any plugin that exists under the
`plugins` directory with a `_site` directory, its content will be
statically served when hitting `/_plugin/[plugin_name]/` url. Those can
be added even after the process has started.

Installed plugins that do not contain any java related content, will
automatically be detected as site plugins, and their content will be
moved under `_site`.

The ability to install plugins from Github allows to easily install site
plugins hosted there by downloading the actual repo, for example,
running:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head
bin/plugin --install lukas-vlcek/bigdesk
--------------------------------------------------

Will install both of those site plugins, with `elasticsearch-head`
available under `http://localhost:9200/_plugin/head/` and `bigdesk`
available under `http://localhost:9200/_plugin/bigdesk/`.

[float]
==== Mandatory Plugins

If you rely on some plugins, you can define mandatory plugins using the
`plugin.mandatory` attribute, for example, here is a sample config:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
plugin.mandatory: mapper-attachments,lang-groovy
--------------------------------------------------

For safety reasons, if a mandatory plugin is not installed, the node
will not start.

[float]
==== Installed Plugins

A list of the currently loaded plugins can be retrieved using the
<<cluster-nodes-info,Node Info API>>.

[float]
==== Removing plugins

Removing plugins can either be done manually by removing them under the
`plugins` directory, or using the `plugin` script.

Removing plugins typically take the following form:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
plugin --remove <pluginname>
-----------------------------------

[float]
==== Silent/Verbose mode

When running the `plugin` script, you can get more information (debug mode) using `--verbose`.
On the opposite, if you want `plugin` script to be silent, use `--silent` option.

Note that exit codes could be:

* `0`: everything was OK
* `64`: unknown command or incorrect option parameter
* `74`: IO error
* `70`: other errors

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --verbose
plugin --remove head --silent
-----------------------------------

[float]
==== Timeout settings

By default, the `plugin` script will wait indefinitely when downloading before failing.
The timeout parameter can be used to explicitly specify how long it waits. Here is some examples of setting it to
different values:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
# Wait for 30 seconds before failing
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --timeout 30s

# Wait for 1 minute before failing
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --timeout 1m

# Wait forever (default)
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head --timeout 0
-----------------------------------

[float]
==== Proxy settings

If you need to install plugin under a proxy environment, you can use environment variables, `proxyHost` and `proxyPort`.

On Linux and Mac, here is an example of setting it:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
bin/plugin -DproxyHost=host_name -DproxyPort=port_number --install mobz/elasticsearch-head
-----------------------------------

On Windows, here is an example of setting it:

[source,shell]
-----------------------------------
set JAVA_OPTS="-DproxyHost=host_name -DproxyPort=port_number"
bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head
-----------------------------------

[float]
==== Lucene version dependent plugins

added[1.2.0]

For some plugins, such as analysis plugins, a specific major Lucene version is
required to run. In that case, the plugin provides in its `es-plugin.properties`
file the Lucene version for which the plugin was built for.

If present at startup the node will check the Lucene version before loading the plugin.

You can disable that check using `plugins.check_lucene: false`.

[float]
[[known-plugins]]
=== Known Plugins

[float]
[[analysis-plugins]]
==== Analysis Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-icu[ICU Analysis plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-kuromoji[Japanese (Kuromoji) Analysis plugin].
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-smartcn[Smart Chinese Analysis Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-stempel[Stempel (Polish) Analysis plugin]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/barminator/elasticsearch-analysis-annotation[Annotation Analysis Plugin] (by Michal Samek)
* https://github.com/yakaz/elasticsearch-analysis-combo/[Combo Analysis Plugin] (by Olivier Favre, Yakaz)
* https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-analysis-hunspell[Hunspell Analysis Plugin] (by Jörg Prante)
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-ik[IK Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)
* https://github.com/suguru/elasticsearch-analysis-japanese[Japanese Analysis plugin] (by suguru).
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-mmseg[Mmseg Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)
* https://github.com/chytreg/elasticsearch-analysis-morfologik[Morfologik (Polish) Analysis plugin] (by chytreg)
* https://github.com/imotov/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology[Russian and English Morphological Analysis Plugin] (by Igor Motov)
* https://github.com/synhershko/elasticsearch-analysis-hebrew[Hebrew Analysis Plugin] (by Itamar Syn-Hershko)
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-pinyin[Pinyin Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)
* https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-string2int[String2Integer Analysis Plugin] (by Medcl)

[float]
[[discovery-plugins]]
==== Discovery Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-aws[AWS Cloud Plugin] - EC2 discovery and S3 Repository
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-azure[Azure Cloud Plugin] - Azure discovery
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-gce[Google Compute Engine Cloud Plugin] - GCE discovery

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/shikhar/eskka[eskka Discovery Plugin] (by Shikhar Bhushan)

[float]
[[river]]
==== River Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-couchdb[CouchDB River Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-rabbitmq[RabbitMQ River Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-twitter[Twitter River Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-wikipedia[Wikipedia River Plugin]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/domdorn/elasticsearch-river-activemq/[ActiveMQ River Plugin] (by Dominik Dorn)
* https://github.com/albogdano/elasticsearch-river-amazonsqs[Amazon SQS River Plugin] (by Alex Bogdanovski)
* https://github.com/xxBedy/elasticsearch-river-csv[CSV River Plugin] (by Martin Bednar)
* http://www.pilato.fr/dropbox/[Dropbox River Plugin] (by David Pilato)
* http://www.pilato.fr/fsriver/[FileSystem River Plugin] (by David Pilato)
* https://github.com/obazoud/elasticsearch-river-git[Git River Plugin] (by Olivier Bazoud)
* https://github.com/uberVU/elasticsearch-river-github[GitHub River Plugin] (by uberVU)
* https://github.com/sksamuel/elasticsearch-river-hazelcast[Hazelcast River Plugin] (by Steve Samuel)
* https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-river-jdbc[JDBC River Plugin] (by Jörg Prante)
* https://github.com/qotho/elasticsearch-river-jms[JMS River Plugin] (by Steve Sarandos)
* https://github.com/endgameinc/elasticsearch-river-kafka[Kafka River Plugin] (by Endgame Inc.)
* https://github.com/tlrx/elasticsearch-river-ldap[LDAP River Plugin] (by Tanguy Leroux)
* https://github.com/richardwilly98/elasticsearch-river-mongodb/[MongoDB River Plugin] (by Richard Louapre)
* https://github.com/sksamuel/elasticsearch-river-neo4j[Neo4j River Plugin] (by Steve Samuel)
* https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-river-oai/[Open Archives Initiative (OAI) River Plugin] (by Jörg Prante)
* https://github.com/sksamuel/elasticsearch-river-redis[Redis River Plugin] (by Steve Samuel)
* http://dadoonet.github.com/rssriver/[RSS River Plugin] (by David Pilato)
* https://github.com/adamlofts/elasticsearch-river-sofa[Sofa River Plugin] (by adamlofts)
* https://github.com/javanna/elasticsearch-river-solr/[Solr River Plugin] (by Luca Cavanna)
* https://github.com/sunnygleason/elasticsearch-river-st9[St9 River Plugin] (by Sunny Gleason)
* https://github.com/plombard/SubversionRiver[Subversion River Plugin] (by Pascal Lombard)
* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-river-dynamodb[DynamoDB River Plugin] (by Kevin Wang)
* https://github.com/salyh/elasticsearch-river-imap[IMAP/POP3 Email River Plugin] (by Hendrik Saly)
* https://github.com/codelibs/elasticsearch-river-web[Web River Plugin] (by CodeLibs Project)
* https://github.com/eea/eea.elasticsearch.river.rdf[EEA ElasticSearch RDF River Plugin] (by the European Environment Agency)

[float]
[[transport]]
==== Transport Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-memcached[Memcached transport plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-thrift[Thrift Transport]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-wares[Servlet transport]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/tlrx/transport-zeromq[ZeroMQ transport layer plugin] (by Tanguy Leroux)
* https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-jetty[Jetty HTTP transport plugin] (by Sonian Inc.)
* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-transport-redis[Redis transport plugin] (by Kevin Wang)

[float]
[[scripting]]
==== Scripting Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/hiredman/elasticsearch-lang-clojure[Clojure Language Plugin] (by Kevin Downey)
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-groovy[Groovy lang Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-javascript[JavaScript language Plugin]
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-python[Python language Plugin]

[float]
[[site]]
==== Site Plugins

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/lukas-vlcek/bigdesk[BigDesk Plugin] (by Lukáš Vlček)
* https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head[Elasticsearch Head Plugin] (by Ben Birch)
* https://github.com/royrusso/elasticsearch-HQ[Elasticsearch HQ] (by Roy Russo)
* https://github.com/andrewvc/elastic-hammer[Hammer Plugin] (by Andrew Cholakian)
* https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-inquisitor[Inquisitor Plugin] (by Zachary Tong)
* https://github.com/karmi/elasticsearch-paramedic[Paramedic Plugin] (by Karel Minařík)
* https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-segmentspy[SegmentSpy Plugin] (by Zachary Tong)
* https://github.com/xyu/elasticsearch-whatson[Whatson Plugin] (by Xiao Yu)

[float]
[[repository-plugins]]
==== Snapshot/Restore Repository Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch

* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-hadoop/tree/master/repository-hdfs[Hadoop HDFS] Repository
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-aws#s3-repository[AWS S3] Repository

.Supported by the community

* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-repository-gridfs[GridFS] Repository (by Kevin Wang)

[float]
[[misc]]
==== Misc Plugins

.Supported by Elasticsearch
* https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-mapper-attachments[Mapper Attachments Type plugin]

.Supported by the community
* https://github.com/carrot2/elasticsearch-carrot2[carrot2 Plugin]: Results clustering with carrot2 (by Dawid Weiss)
* https://github.com/derryx/elasticsearch-changes-plugin[Elasticsearch Changes Plugin] (by Thomas Peuss)
* https://github.com/johtani/elasticsearch-extended-analyze[Extended Analyze Plugin] (by Jun Ohtani)
* https://github.com/spinscale/elasticsearch-graphite-plugin[Elasticsearch Graphite Plugin] (by Alexander Reelsen)
* https://github.com/mattweber/elasticsearch-mocksolrplugin[Elasticsearch Mock Solr Plugin] (by Matt Weber)
* https://github.com/viniciusccarvalho/elasticsearch-newrelic[Elasticsearch New Relic Plugin] (by Vinicius Carvalho)
* https://github.com/swoop-inc/elasticsearch-statsd-plugin[Elasticsearch Statsd Plugin] (by Swoop Inc.)
* https://github.com/endgameinc/elasticsearch-term-plugin[Terms Component Plugin] (by Endgame Inc.)
* http://tlrx.github.com/elasticsearch-view-plugin[Elasticsearch View Plugin] (by Tanguy Leroux)
* https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-zookeeper[ZooKeeper Discovery Plugin] (by Sonian Inc.)
* https://github.com/kzwang/elasticsearch-image[Elasticsearch Image Plugin] (by Kevin Wang)
* https://github.com/wikimedia/search-highlighter[Elasticsearch Experimental Highlighter] (by Wikimedia Foundation/Nik Everett)
* https://github.com/salyh/elasticsearch-security-plugin[Elasticsearch Security Plugin] (by Hendrik Saly)
* https://github.com/codelibs/elasticsearch-taste[Elasticsearch Taste Plugin] (by CodeLibs Project)
* http://siren.solutions/siren/downloads/[Elasticsearch SIREn Plugin]: Nested data search (by SIREn Solutions)
