docs/reference/modules/remote-clusters.asciidoc, before:

[[remote-clusters]]
== Remote clusters
You can connect a local cluster to other {es} clusters, known as _remote
clusters_. Remote clusters can be located in different datacenters or 
geographic regions, and contain indices or data streams that can be replicated
with {ccr} or searched by a local cluster using {ccs}.

[[remote-clusters-ccr]]
[discrete]
=== {ccr-cap}

With <<xpack-ccr,{ccr}>>, you ingest data to an index on a remote cluster. This
_leader_ index is replicated to one or more read-only _follower_ indices on your
local cluster. Creating a multi-cluster architecture with {ccr} enables you to
configure disaster recovery, bring data closer to your users, or establish a
centralized reporting cluster to process reports locally.

[[remote-clusters-ccs]]
[discrete]
=== {ccs-cap}

<<modules-cross-cluster-search,{ccs-cap}>> enables you to run a search request
against one or more remote clusters. This capability provides each region with a
global view of all clusters, allowing you to send a search request from a local
cluster and return results from all connected remote clusters. For full {ccs}
capabilities, the local and remote cluster must be on the same
{subscriptions}[subscription level].

[[add-remote-clusters]]
[discrete]
=== Add remote clusters

To add remote clusters, you can choose between
<<remote-clusters-security-models,two security models>> and
<<sniff-proxy-modes,two connection modes>>. Both security models are compatible
with either of the connection modes.

[[remote-clusters-security-models]]
[discrete]
==== Security models

API key based security model::
beta:[]
For clusters on version 8.10 or later, you can use an API key to authenticate
and authorize cross-cluster operations to a remote cluster. This model offers
administrators of both the local and the remote cluster fine-grained access
controls. <<remote-clusters-api-key>>.

Certificate based security model::
Uses mutual TLS authentication for cross-cluster operations. User authentication
is performed on the local cluster and a user's role names are passed to the 
remote cluster. In this model, a superuser on the local cluster gains total read
access to the remote cluster, so it is only suitable for clusters that are in
the same security domain. <<remote-clusters-cert>>.

[[sniff-proxy-modes]]
[discrete]
==== Connection modes

[[sniff-mode]]
Sniff mode::
In sniff mode, a cluster is created using a name and a list of seed nodes. When
a remote cluster is registered, its cluster state is retrieved from one of the
seed nodes and up to three _gateway nodes_ are selected as part of remote
cluster requests. This mode requires that the gateway node's publish addresses
are accessible by the local cluster.
+
Sniff mode is the default connection mode.
+
[[gateway-nodes-selection]]
The _gateway nodes_ selection depends on the following criteria:
+
* *version*: Remote nodes must be compatible with the cluster they are
registered to.
* *role*: By default, any non-<<master-node,master-eligible>> node can act as a
gateway node. Dedicated master nodes are never selected as gateway nodes.
* *attributes*: You can define the gateway nodes for a cluster by setting
<<cluster-remote-node-attr,`cluster.remote.node.attr.gateway`>> to `true`.
However, such nodes still have to satisfy the two above requirements.

[[proxy-mode]]
Proxy mode::
In proxy mode, a cluster is created using a name and a single proxy address.
When you register a remote cluster, a configurable number of socket connections
are opened to the proxy address. The proxy is required to route those
connections to the remote cluster. Proxy mode does not require remote cluster
nodes to have accessible publish addresses.
+
The proxy mode is not the default connection mode and must be configured.
Proxy mode has the same <<gateway-nodes-selection, version compatibility
requirements>> as sniff mode.

include::cluster/remote-clusters-api-key.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-cert.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-migration.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-settings.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-troubleshooting.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

reference specific instructions for cloud

docs/reference/modules/remote-clusters.asciidoc, after:

[[remote-clusters]]
== Remote clusters
You can connect a local cluster to other {es} clusters, known as _remote
clusters_. Remote clusters can be located in different datacenters or 
geographic regions, and contain indices or data streams that can be replicated
with {ccr} or searched by a local cluster using {ccs}.

[[remote-clusters-ccr]]
[discrete]
=== {ccr-cap}

With <<xpack-ccr,{ccr}>>, you ingest data to an index on a remote cluster. This
_leader_ index is replicated to one or more read-only _follower_ indices on your
local cluster. Creating a multi-cluster architecture with {ccr} enables you to
configure disaster recovery, bring data closer to your users, or establish a
centralized reporting cluster to process reports locally.

[[remote-clusters-ccs]]
[discrete]
=== {ccs-cap}

<<modules-cross-cluster-search,{ccs-cap}>> enables you to run a search request
against one or more remote clusters. This capability provides each region with a
global view of all clusters, allowing you to send a search request from a local
cluster and return results from all connected remote clusters. For full {ccs}
capabilities, the local and remote cluster must be on the same
{subscriptions}[subscription level].

[[add-remote-clusters]]
[discrete]
=== Add remote clusters

NOTE: The instructions that follow describe how to create a remote connection from a 
self-managed cluster. You can also set up {ccs} and {ccr} from an 
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-enable-ccs.html[{ess} deployment] 
or from an link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-enterprise/current/ece-enable-ccs.html[{ece} deployment].

To add remote clusters, you can choose between
<<remote-clusters-security-models,two security models>> and
<<sniff-proxy-modes,two connection modes>>. Both security models are compatible
with either of the connection modes.

[[remote-clusters-security-models]]
[discrete]
==== Security models

API key based security model::
beta:[]
For clusters on version 8.10 or later, you can use an API key to authenticate
and authorize cross-cluster operations to a remote cluster. This model offers
administrators of both the local and the remote cluster fine-grained access
controls. <<remote-clusters-api-key>>.

Certificate based security model::
Uses mutual TLS authentication for cross-cluster operations. User authentication
is performed on the local cluster and a user's role names are passed to the 
remote cluster. In this model, a superuser on the local cluster gains total read
access to the remote cluster, so it is only suitable for clusters that are in
the same security domain. <<remote-clusters-cert>>.

[[sniff-proxy-modes]]
[discrete]
==== Connection modes

[[sniff-mode]]
Sniff mode::
In sniff mode, a cluster is created using a name and a list of seed nodes. When
a remote cluster is registered, its cluster state is retrieved from one of the
seed nodes and up to three _gateway nodes_ are selected as part of remote
cluster requests. This mode requires that the gateway node's publish addresses
are accessible by the local cluster.
+
Sniff mode is the default connection mode.
+
[[gateway-nodes-selection]]
The _gateway nodes_ selection depends on the following criteria:
+
* *version*: Remote nodes must be compatible with the cluster they are
registered to.
* *role*: By default, any non-<<master-node,master-eligible>> node can act as a
gateway node. Dedicated master nodes are never selected as gateway nodes.
* *attributes*: You can define the gateway nodes for a cluster by setting
<<cluster-remote-node-attr,`cluster.remote.node.attr.gateway`>> to `true`.
However, such nodes still have to satisfy the two above requirements.

[[proxy-mode]]
Proxy mode::
In proxy mode, a cluster is created using a name and a single proxy address.
When you register a remote cluster, a configurable number of socket connections
are opened to the proxy address. The proxy is required to route those
connections to the remote cluster. Proxy mode does not require remote cluster
nodes to have accessible publish addresses.
+
The proxy mode is not the default connection mode and must be configured.
Proxy mode has the same <<gateway-nodes-selection, version compatibility
requirements>> as sniff mode.

include::cluster/remote-clusters-api-key.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-cert.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-migration.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-settings.asciidoc[]

include::cluster/remote-clusters-troubleshooting.asciidoc[]
