docs/reference/query-languages/esql/_snippets/functions/functionNamedParams/match.md, before:

% This is generated by ESQL's AbstractFunctionTestCase. Do no edit it. See ../README.md for how to regenerate it.

**Supported function named parameters**

`fuzziness`
:   (keyword) Maximum edit distance allowed for matching.

`auto_generate_synonyms_phrase_query`
:   (boolean) If true, match phrase queries are automatically created for multi-term synonyms. Defaults to true.

`analyzer`
:   (keyword) Analyzer used to convert the text in the query value into token. Defaults to the index-time analyzer mapped for the field. If no analyzer is mapped, the index’s default analyzer is used.

`minimum_should_match`
:   (integer) Minimum number of clauses that must match for a document to be returned.

`zero_terms_query`
:   (keyword) Indicates whether all documents or none are returned if the analyzer removes all tokens, such as when using a stop filter. Defaults to none.

`boost`
:   (float) Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Defaults to 1.0.

`fuzzy_transpositions`
:   (boolean) If true, edits for fuzzy matching include transpositions of two adjacent characters (ab → ba). Defaults to true.

`fuzzy_rewrite`
:   (keyword) Method used to rewrite the query. See the rewrite parameter for valid values and more information. If the fuzziness parameter is not 0, the match query uses a fuzzy_rewrite method of top_terms_blended_freqs_${max_expansions} by default.

`prefix_length`
:   (integer) Number of beginning characters left unchanged for fuzzy matching. Defaults to 0.

`lenient`
:   (boolean) If false, format-based errors, such as providing a text query value for a numeric field, are returned. Defaults to false.

`operator`
:   (keyword) Boolean logic used to interpret text in the query value. Defaults to OR.

`max_expansions`
:   (integer) Maximum number of terms to which the query will expand. Defaults to 50.

Commit message:

Update match and remove multi_match

docs/reference/query-languages/esql/_snippets/functions/functionNamedParams/match.md, after:

% This is generated by ESQL's AbstractFunctionTestCase. Do no edit it. See ../README.md for how to regenerate it.

**Supported function named parameters**

`fuzziness`
:   (keyword) Maximum edit distance allowed for matching.

`auto_generate_synonyms_phrase_query`
:   (boolean) If true, match phrase queries are automatically created for multi-term synonyms. Defaults to true.

`minimum_should_match`
:   (integer) Minimum number of clauses that must match for a document to be returned.

`fuzzy_transpositions`
:   (boolean) If true, edits for fuzzy matching include transpositions of two adjacent characters (ab → ba). Defaults to true.

`tie_breaker`
:   (float) Controls how score is blended together between field groups. Defaults to 0 (best score from each group).

`type`
:   (object) Controls the way multi_match is executed internally. Can be one of `best_fields`, `most_fields`, `cross_fields`, `phrase`, `phrase_prefix` or `bool_prefix`. Defaults to 'best_fields'. See <<multi-match-types,multi_match types>>.

`lenient`
:   (boolean) If false, format-based errors, such as providing a text query value for a numeric field, are returned. Defaults to true.

`operator`
:   (keyword) Boolean logic used to interpret text in the query value. Defaults to OR.

`max_expansions`
:   (integer) Maximum number of terms to which the query will expand. Defaults to 50.

`analyzer`
:   (keyword) Analyzer used to convert the text in the query value into token. Defaults to the index-time analyzer mapped for the field. If no analyzer is mapped, the index’s default analyzer is used.

`zero_terms_query`
:   (keyword) Indicates whether all documents or none are returned if the analyzer removes all tokens, such as when using a stop filter. Defaults to none.

`boost`
:   (float) Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Defaults to 1.0.

`fuzzy_rewrite`
:   (keyword) Method used to rewrite the query. See the rewrite parameter for valid values and more information. If the fuzziness parameter is not 0, the match query uses a fuzzy_rewrite method of top_terms_blended_freqs_${max_expansions} by default.

`prefix_length`
:   (integer) Number of beginning characters left unchanged for fuzzy matching. Defaults to 0.
