docs/reference/search/request/scroll.asciidoc, before:

[[search-request-scroll]]
=== Scroll

A search request can be scrolled by specifying the `scroll` parameter.
The `scroll` parameter is a time value parameter (for example:
`scroll=5m`), indicating for how long the nodes that participate in the
search will maintain relevant resources in order to continue and support
it. This is very similar in its idea to opening a cursor against a
database.

A `scroll_id` is returned from the first search request (and from
continuous) scroll requests. The `scroll_id` should be used when
scrolling (along with the `scroll` parameter, to stop the scroll from
expiring). The scroll id can also be passed as part of the search
request body.

*Note*: the `scroll_id` changes for each scroll request and only the
most recent one should be used.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/twitter/tweet/_search?scroll=5m' -d '{
    "query": {
        "query_string" : {
            "query" : "some query string here"
        }
    }
}
'
--------------------------------------------------

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/_search/scroll?scroll=5m&scroll_id=c2Nhbjs2OzM0NDg1ODpzRlBLc0FXNlNyNm5JWUc1'
--------------------------------------------------

Scrolling is not intended for real time user requests, it is intended
for cases like scrolling over large portions of data that exists within
elasticsearch to reindex it for example.

For more information on scrolling, see the
<<search-request-search-type,scan>> search type.

Commit message:

Added a little note to scroll docs
It wasn't so clear the first time around. Thought it would help a little. Likewise, this section might also need the same edits: http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-request-search-type.html#scan.

docs/reference/search/request/scroll.asciidoc, after:

[[search-request-scroll]]
=== Scroll

A search request can be scrolled by specifying the `scroll` parameter.
The `scroll` parameter is a time value parameter (for example:
`scroll=5m`), indicating for how long the nodes that participate in the
search will maintain relevant resources in order to continue and support
it. This is very similar in its idea to opening a cursor against a
database.

A `scroll_id` is returned from the first search request (and from
continuous) scroll requests. The `scroll_id` should be used when
scrolling (along with the `scroll` parameter, to stop the scroll from
expiring). The scroll id can also be passed as part of the search
request body.

*Note*: the `scroll_id` changes for each scroll request and only the
most recent one should be used.

*Note*: If the index (in this example, `twitter`) is specified when 
you send in the query, then you don't have to specify the index when 
you start scrolling. Doing so will just throw errors.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/twitter/tweet/_search?scroll=5m' -d '{
    "query": {
        "query_string" : {
            "query" : "some query string here"
        }
    }
}
'
--------------------------------------------------

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/_search/scroll?scroll=5m&scroll_id=c2Nhbjs2OzM0NDg1ODpzRlBLc0FXNlNyNm5JWUc1'
--------------------------------------------------

Scrolling is not intended for real time user requests, it is intended
for cases like scrolling over large portions of data that exists within
elasticsearch to reindex it for example.

For more information on scrolling, see the
<<search-request-search-type,scan>> search type.
