docs/reference/data-streams/tsds.asciidoc, before:

[[tsds]]
== Time series data stream (TSDS)

A time series data stream (TSDS) models timestamped metrics data as one or
more time series.

You can use a TSDS to store metrics data more efficiently. In our benchmarks,
metrics data stored in a TSDS used 70% less disk space than a regular data
stream.

[discrete]
[[when-to-use-tsds]]
=== When to use a TSDS

Both a <<data-streams,regular data stream>> and a TSDS can store timestamped
metrics data. Only use a TSDS if you typically add metrics data to {es} in near
real-time and `@timestamp` order.

A TSDS is only intended for metrics data. For other timestamped data, such as
logs or traces, use a regular data stream.

[discrete]
[[differences-from-regular-data-stream]]
=== Differences from a regular data stream

A TSDS works like a regular data stream with some key differences:

* The matching index template for a TSDS requires a `data_stream` object with
the <<time-series-mode,`index.mode: time_series`>> option. This option enables
most TSDS-related functionality.

* In addition to a `@timestamp`, each document in a TSDS must contain one or
more <<time-series-dimension,dimension fields>>. The matching index template for
a TSDS must contain mappings for at least one `keyword` dimension.
+
TSDS documents also typically
contain one or more <<time-series-metric,metric fields>>.

* {es} generates a hidden <<tsid,`_tsid`>> metadata field for each document in a
TSDS.

* A TSDS uses <<time-bound-indices,time-bound backing indices>> to store data
from the same time period in the same backing index.

* The matching index template for a TSDS must contain the `index.routing_path`
index setting. A TSDS uses this setting to perform
<<dimension-based-routing,dimension-based routing>>.

* A TSDS uses internal <<index-modules-index-sorting,index sorting>> to order
shard segments by `_tsid` and `@timestamp`.

* TSDS documents only support auto-generated document `_id` values. For TSDS
documents, the document `_id` is a hash of the document's dimensions and
`@timestamp`. A TSDS doesn't support custom document `_id` values.

[discrete]
[[time-series]]
=== What is a time series?

A time series is a sequence of observations for a specific entity. Together,
these observations let you track changes to the entity over time. For example, a
time series can track:

* CPU and disk usage for a computer
* The price of a stock
* Temperature and humidity readings from a weather sensor.

.Time series of weather sensor readings plotted as a graph
image::images/data-streams/time-series-chart.svg[align="center"]

In a TSDS, each {es} document represents an observation, or data point, in a
specific time series. Although a TSDS can contain multiple time series, a
document can only belong to one time series. A time series can't span multiple
data streams.

[discrete]
[[time-series-dimension]]
==== Dimensions

Dimensions are field names and values that, in combination, identify a
document's time series. In most cases, a dimension describes some aspect of the
entity you're measuring. For example, documents related to the same weather
sensor may always have the same `sensor_id` and `location` values.

A TSDS document is uniquely identified by its time series and timestamp, both of
which are used to generate the document `_id`. So, two documents with the same
dimensions and the same timestamp are considered to be duplicates. When you use
the `_bulk` endpoint to add documents to a TSDS, a second document with the same
timestamp and dimensions overwrites the first. When you use the
`PUT /<target>/_create/<_id>` format to add an individual document and a document
with the same `_id` already exists, an error is generated.

You mark a field as a dimension using the boolean `time_series_dimension`
mapping parameter. The following field types support the `time_series_dimension`
parameter:

* <<keyword-field-type,`keyword`>>
* <<ip,`ip`>>
* <<number,`byte`>>
* <<number,`short`>>
* <<number,`integer`>>
* <<number,`long`>>
* <<number,`unsigned_long`>>

For a flattened field, use the `time_series_dimensions` parameter to configure an array of fields as dimensions. For details refer to <<flattened-params,`flattened`>>.

[[dimension-limits]]
.Dimension limits
****
In a TSDS, {es} uses dimensions to
generate the document `_id` and <<tsid,`_tsid`>> values. The resulting `_id` is
always a short encoded hash. To prevent the `_tsid` value from being overly
large, {es} limits the number of dimensions for an index using the
<<index-mapping-dimension-fields-limit,`index.mapping.dimension_fields.limit`>>
index setting. While you can increase this limit, the resulting document `_tsid`
value can't exceed 32KB. Additionally the field name of a dimension cannot be
longer than 512 bytes and the each dimension value can't exceed 1kb.
****

[discrete]
[[time-series-metric]]
==== Metrics

Metrics are fields that contain numeric measurements, as well as aggregations
and/or downsampling values based off of those measurements. While not required,
documents in a TSDS typically contain one or more metric fields.

Metrics differ from dimensions in that while dimensions generally remain
constant, metrics are expected to change over time, even if rarely or slowly.

To mark a field as a metric, you must specify a metric type using the
`time_series_metric` mapping parameter. The following field types support the
`time_series_metric` parameter:

* <<aggregate-metric-double,`aggregate_metric_double`>>
* <<histogram,`histogram`>>
* All <<number,numeric field types>>

Accepted metric types vary based on the field type:

.Valid values for `time_series_metric`
[%collapsible%open]
====
// tag::time-series-metric-counter[]
`counter`:: A number that only increases or resets to `0` (zero). For
example, a count of errors or completed tasks.
// end::time-series-metric-counter[]
+
Only numeric and `aggregate_metric_double` fields support the `counter` metric
type.

NOTE: Counter fields do come with a limitation in aggregations. Only the following aggregations are supported with the `counter` field: `rate`, `histogram`, `range`, `min`, `max`, `top_metrics` and `variable_width_histogram`.

// tag::time-series-metric-gauge[]
`gauge`:: A number that can increase or decrease. For example, a temperature or
available disk space.
// end::time-series-metric-gauge[]
+
Only numeric and `aggregate_metric_double` fields support the `gauge` metric
type.

// tag::time-series-metric-null[]
`null` (Default):: Not a time series metric.
// end::time-series-metric-null[]
====

[discrete]
[[time-series-mode]]
=== Time series mode

The matching index template for a TSDS must contain a `data_stream` object with
the `index_mode: time_series` option. This option ensures the TSDS creates
backing indices with an <<index-mode,`index.mode`>> setting of `time_series`.
This setting enables most TSDS-related functionality in the backing indices.

If you convert an existing data stream to a TSDS, only backing indices created
after the conversion have an `index.mode` of `time_series`. You can't
change the `index.mode` of an existing backing index.

[discrete]
[[tsid]]
==== `_tsid` metadata field

When you add a document to a TSDS, {es} automatically generates a `_tsid`
metadata field for the document. The `_tsid` is an object containing the
document's dimensions. Documents in the same TSDS with the same `_tsid` are part
of the same time series.

The `_tsid` field is not queryable or updatable. You also can't retrieve a
document's `_tsid` using a <<docs-get,get document>> request. However, you can
use the `_tsid` field in aggregations and retrieve the `_tsid` value in searches
using the <<search-fields-param,`fields` parameter>>.

WARNING: The format of the `_tsid` field shouldn't be relied upon. It may change
from version to version.

[discrete]
[[time-bound-indices]]
==== Time-bound indices

In a TSDS, each backing index, including the most recent backing index, has a
range of accepted `@timestamp` values. This range is defined by the
<<index-time-series-start-time,`index.time_series.start_time`>> and
<<index-time-series-end-time,`index.time_series.end_time`>> index settings.

When you add a document to a TSDS, {es} adds the document to the appropriate
backing index based on its `@timestamp` value. As a result, a TSDS can add
documents to any TSDS backing index that can receive writes. This applies even
if the index isn't the most recent backing index.

image::images/data-streams/time-bound-indices.svg[align="center"]

TIP: Some {ilm-init} actions, such as <<ilm-forcemerge,`forcemerge`>>,
<<ilm-shrink,`shrink`>>, and <<ilm-searchable-snapshot,`searchable_snapshot`>>,
make a backing index read-only. You cannot add documents to read-only indices.
Keep this in mind when defining the index lifecycle policy for your TSDS.

If no backing index can accept a document's `@timestamp` value, {es} rejects the
document.


{es} automatically configures `index.time_series.start_time` and
`index.time_series.end_time` settings as part of the index creation and rollover
process.

[discrete]
[[tsds-look-ahead-time]]
==== Look-ahead time

Use the <<index-look-ahead-time,`index.look_ahead_time`>> index setting to
configure how far into the future you can add documents to an index. When you
create a new write index for a TSDS, {es} calculates the index's
`index.time_series.end_time` value as:

`now + index.look_ahead_time`

At the time series poll interval (controlled via `time_series.poll_interval` setting),
{es} checks if the write index has met the rollover criteria in its index
lifecycle policy. If not, {es} refreshes the `now` value and updates the write
index's `index.time_series.end_time` to:

`now + index.look_ahead_time + time_series.poll_interval`

This process continues until the write index rolls over. When the index rolls
over, {es} sets a final `index.time_series.end_time` value for the index. This
value borders the `index.time_series.start_time` for the new write index. This
ensures the `@timestamp` ranges for neighboring backing indices always border
but never overlap.

[discrete]
[[tsds-accepted-time-range]]
==== Accepted time range for adding data

A TSDS is designed to ingest current metrics data. When the TSDS is first
created the initial backing index has:

* an `index.time_series.start_time` value set to `now - index.look_ahead_time`
* an `index.time_series.end_time` value set to `now + index.look_ahead_time`

Only data that falls inside that range can be indexed.

In our <<tsds-create-index-settings-component-template,TSDS example>>,
`index.look_ahead_time` is set to three hours, so only documents with a
`@timestamp` value that is within three hours previous or subsequent to the
present time are accepted for indexing.

You can use the <<indices-get-data-stream,get data stream API>> to check the
accepted time range for writing to any TSDS.

[discrete]
[[dimension-based-routing]]
==== Dimension-based routing

Within each TSDS backing index, {es} uses the
<<index-routing-path,`index.routing_path`>> index setting to route documents
with the same dimensions to the same shards.

When you create the matching index template for a TSDS, you must specify one or
more dimensions in the `index.routing_path` setting. Each document in a TSDS
must contain one or more dimensions that match the `index.routing_path` setting.

Dimensions in the `index.routing_path` setting must be plain `keyword` fields.
The `index.routing_path` setting accepts wildcard patterns (for example `dim.*`)
and can dynamically match new fields. However, {es} will reject any mapping
updates that add scripted, runtime, or non-dimension, non-`keyword` fields that
match the `index.routing_path` value.

TSDS documents don't support a custom `_routing` value. Similarly, you can't
require a `_routing` value in mappings for a TSDS.

[discrete]
[[tsds-index-sorting]]
==== Index sorting

{es} uses <<index-codec,compression algorithms>> to compress repeated values.
This compression works best when repeated values are stored near each other — in
the same index, on the same shard, and side-by-side in the same shard segment.

Most time series data contains repeated values. Dimensions are repeated across
documents in the same time series. The metric values of a time series may also
change slowly over time.

Internally, each TSDS backing index uses <<index-modules-index-sorting,index
sorting>> to order its shard segments by `_tsid` and `@timestamp`. This makes it
more likely that these repeated values are stored near each other for better
compression. A TSDS doesn't support any
<<index-modules-index-sorting,`index.sort.*`>> index settings.

[discrete]
[[tsds-whats-next]]
=== What's next?

Now that you know the basics, you're ready to <<set-up-tsds,create a TSDS>> or
<<set-up-tsds,convert an existing data stream to a TSDS>>.

include::set-up-tsds.asciidoc[]
include::tsds-index-settings.asciidoc[]
include::downsampling.asciidoc[]
include::downsampling-manual.asciidoc[]
include::downsampling-ilm.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Clarify that disk impact of TSDS varies per data set (#97571) (#97635)

docs/reference/data-streams/tsds.asciidoc, after:

[[tsds]]
== Time series data stream (TSDS)

A time series data stream (TSDS) models timestamped metrics data as one or
more time series.

You can use a TSDS to store metrics data more efficiently. In our benchmarks,
metrics data stored in a TSDS used 70% less disk space than a regular data
stream. The exact impact will vary per data set.

[discrete]
[[when-to-use-tsds]]
=== When to use a TSDS

Both a <<data-streams,regular data stream>> and a TSDS can store timestamped
metrics data. Only use a TSDS if you typically add metrics data to {es} in near
real-time and `@timestamp` order.

A TSDS is only intended for metrics data. For other timestamped data, such as
logs or traces, use a regular data stream.

[discrete]
[[differences-from-regular-data-stream]]
=== Differences from a regular data stream

A TSDS works like a regular data stream with some key differences:

* The matching index template for a TSDS requires a `data_stream` object with
the <<time-series-mode,`index.mode: time_series`>> option. This option enables
most TSDS-related functionality.

* In addition to a `@timestamp`, each document in a TSDS must contain one or
more <<time-series-dimension,dimension fields>>. The matching index template for
a TSDS must contain mappings for at least one `keyword` dimension.
+
TSDS documents also typically
contain one or more <<time-series-metric,metric fields>>.

* {es} generates a hidden <<tsid,`_tsid`>> metadata field for each document in a
TSDS.

* A TSDS uses <<time-bound-indices,time-bound backing indices>> to store data
from the same time period in the same backing index.

* The matching index template for a TSDS must contain the `index.routing_path`
index setting. A TSDS uses this setting to perform
<<dimension-based-routing,dimension-based routing>>.

* A TSDS uses internal <<index-modules-index-sorting,index sorting>> to order
shard segments by `_tsid` and `@timestamp`.

* TSDS documents only support auto-generated document `_id` values. For TSDS
documents, the document `_id` is a hash of the document's dimensions and
`@timestamp`. A TSDS doesn't support custom document `_id` values.

[discrete]
[[time-series]]
=== What is a time series?

A time series is a sequence of observations for a specific entity. Together,
these observations let you track changes to the entity over time. For example, a
time series can track:

* CPU and disk usage for a computer
* The price of a stock
* Temperature and humidity readings from a weather sensor.

.Time series of weather sensor readings plotted as a graph
image::images/data-streams/time-series-chart.svg[align="center"]

In a TSDS, each {es} document represents an observation, or data point, in a
specific time series. Although a TSDS can contain multiple time series, a
document can only belong to one time series. A time series can't span multiple
data streams.

[discrete]
[[time-series-dimension]]
==== Dimensions

Dimensions are field names and values that, in combination, identify a
document's time series. In most cases, a dimension describes some aspect of the
entity you're measuring. For example, documents related to the same weather
sensor may always have the same `sensor_id` and `location` values.

A TSDS document is uniquely identified by its time series and timestamp, both of
which are used to generate the document `_id`. So, two documents with the same
dimensions and the same timestamp are considered to be duplicates. When you use
the `_bulk` endpoint to add documents to a TSDS, a second document with the same
timestamp and dimensions overwrites the first. When you use the
`PUT /<target>/_create/<_id>` format to add an individual document and a document
with the same `_id` already exists, an error is generated.

You mark a field as a dimension using the boolean `time_series_dimension`
mapping parameter. The following field types support the `time_series_dimension`
parameter:

* <<keyword-field-type,`keyword`>>
* <<ip,`ip`>>
* <<number,`byte`>>
* <<number,`short`>>
* <<number,`integer`>>
* <<number,`long`>>
* <<number,`unsigned_long`>>

For a flattened field, use the `time_series_dimensions` parameter to configure an array of fields as dimensions. For details refer to <<flattened-params,`flattened`>>.

[[dimension-limits]]
.Dimension limits
****
In a TSDS, {es} uses dimensions to
generate the document `_id` and <<tsid,`_tsid`>> values. The resulting `_id` is
always a short encoded hash. To prevent the `_tsid` value from being overly
large, {es} limits the number of dimensions for an index using the
<<index-mapping-dimension-fields-limit,`index.mapping.dimension_fields.limit`>>
index setting. While you can increase this limit, the resulting document `_tsid`
value can't exceed 32KB. Additionally the field name of a dimension cannot be
longer than 512 bytes and the each dimension value can't exceed 1kb.
****

[discrete]
[[time-series-metric]]
==== Metrics

Metrics are fields that contain numeric measurements, as well as aggregations
and/or downsampling values based off of those measurements. While not required,
documents in a TSDS typically contain one or more metric fields.

Metrics differ from dimensions in that while dimensions generally remain
constant, metrics are expected to change over time, even if rarely or slowly.

To mark a field as a metric, you must specify a metric type using the
`time_series_metric` mapping parameter. The following field types support the
`time_series_metric` parameter:

* <<aggregate-metric-double,`aggregate_metric_double`>>
* <<histogram,`histogram`>>
* All <<number,numeric field types>>

Accepted metric types vary based on the field type:

.Valid values for `time_series_metric`
[%collapsible%open]
====
// tag::time-series-metric-counter[]
`counter`:: A number that only increases or resets to `0` (zero). For
example, a count of errors or completed tasks.
// end::time-series-metric-counter[]
+
Only numeric and `aggregate_metric_double` fields support the `counter` metric
type.

NOTE: Counter fields do come with a limitation in aggregations. Only the following aggregations are supported with the `counter` field: `rate`, `histogram`, `range`, `min`, `max`, `top_metrics` and `variable_width_histogram`.

// tag::time-series-metric-gauge[]
`gauge`:: A number that can increase or decrease. For example, a temperature or
available disk space.
// end::time-series-metric-gauge[]
+
Only numeric and `aggregate_metric_double` fields support the `gauge` metric
type.

// tag::time-series-metric-null[]
`null` (Default):: Not a time series metric.
// end::time-series-metric-null[]
====

[discrete]
[[time-series-mode]]
=== Time series mode

The matching index template for a TSDS must contain a `data_stream` object with
the `index_mode: time_series` option. This option ensures the TSDS creates
backing indices with an <<index-mode,`index.mode`>> setting of `time_series`.
This setting enables most TSDS-related functionality in the backing indices.

If you convert an existing data stream to a TSDS, only backing indices created
after the conversion have an `index.mode` of `time_series`. You can't
change the `index.mode` of an existing backing index.

[discrete]
[[tsid]]
==== `_tsid` metadata field

When you add a document to a TSDS, {es} automatically generates a `_tsid`
metadata field for the document. The `_tsid` is an object containing the
document's dimensions. Documents in the same TSDS with the same `_tsid` are part
of the same time series.

The `_tsid` field is not queryable or updatable. You also can't retrieve a
document's `_tsid` using a <<docs-get,get document>> request. However, you can
use the `_tsid` field in aggregations and retrieve the `_tsid` value in searches
using the <<search-fields-param,`fields` parameter>>.

WARNING: The format of the `_tsid` field shouldn't be relied upon. It may change
from version to version.

[discrete]
[[time-bound-indices]]
==== Time-bound indices

In a TSDS, each backing index, including the most recent backing index, has a
range of accepted `@timestamp` values. This range is defined by the
<<index-time-series-start-time,`index.time_series.start_time`>> and
<<index-time-series-end-time,`index.time_series.end_time`>> index settings.

When you add a document to a TSDS, {es} adds the document to the appropriate
backing index based on its `@timestamp` value. As a result, a TSDS can add
documents to any TSDS backing index that can receive writes. This applies even
if the index isn't the most recent backing index.

image::images/data-streams/time-bound-indices.svg[align="center"]

TIP: Some {ilm-init} actions, such as <<ilm-forcemerge,`forcemerge`>>,
<<ilm-shrink,`shrink`>>, and <<ilm-searchable-snapshot,`searchable_snapshot`>>,
make a backing index read-only. You cannot add documents to read-only indices.
Keep this in mind when defining the index lifecycle policy for your TSDS.

If no backing index can accept a document's `@timestamp` value, {es} rejects the
document.


{es} automatically configures `index.time_series.start_time` and
`index.time_series.end_time` settings as part of the index creation and rollover
process.

[discrete]
[[tsds-look-ahead-time]]
==== Look-ahead time

Use the <<index-look-ahead-time,`index.look_ahead_time`>> index setting to
configure how far into the future you can add documents to an index. When you
create a new write index for a TSDS, {es} calculates the index's
`index.time_series.end_time` value as:

`now + index.look_ahead_time`

At the time series poll interval (controlled via `time_series.poll_interval` setting),
{es} checks if the write index has met the rollover criteria in its index
lifecycle policy. If not, {es} refreshes the `now` value and updates the write
index's `index.time_series.end_time` to:

`now + index.look_ahead_time + time_series.poll_interval`

This process continues until the write index rolls over. When the index rolls
over, {es} sets a final `index.time_series.end_time` value for the index. This
value borders the `index.time_series.start_time` for the new write index. This
ensures the `@timestamp` ranges for neighboring backing indices always border
but never overlap.

[discrete]
[[tsds-accepted-time-range]]
==== Accepted time range for adding data

A TSDS is designed to ingest current metrics data. When the TSDS is first
created the initial backing index has:

* an `index.time_series.start_time` value set to `now - index.look_ahead_time`
* an `index.time_series.end_time` value set to `now + index.look_ahead_time`

Only data that falls inside that range can be indexed.

In our <<tsds-create-index-settings-component-template,TSDS example>>,
`index.look_ahead_time` is set to three hours, so only documents with a
`@timestamp` value that is within three hours previous or subsequent to the
present time are accepted for indexing.

You can use the <<indices-get-data-stream,get data stream API>> to check the
accepted time range for writing to any TSDS.

[discrete]
[[dimension-based-routing]]
==== Dimension-based routing

Within each TSDS backing index, {es} uses the
<<index-routing-path,`index.routing_path`>> index setting to route documents
with the same dimensions to the same shards.

When you create the matching index template for a TSDS, you must specify one or
more dimensions in the `index.routing_path` setting. Each document in a TSDS
must contain one or more dimensions that match the `index.routing_path` setting.

Dimensions in the `index.routing_path` setting must be plain `keyword` fields.
The `index.routing_path` setting accepts wildcard patterns (for example `dim.*`)
and can dynamically match new fields. However, {es} will reject any mapping
updates that add scripted, runtime, or non-dimension, non-`keyword` fields that
match the `index.routing_path` value.

TSDS documents don't support a custom `_routing` value. Similarly, you can't
require a `_routing` value in mappings for a TSDS.

[discrete]
[[tsds-index-sorting]]
==== Index sorting

{es} uses <<index-codec,compression algorithms>> to compress repeated values.
This compression works best when repeated values are stored near each other — in
the same index, on the same shard, and side-by-side in the same shard segment.

Most time series data contains repeated values. Dimensions are repeated across
documents in the same time series. The metric values of a time series may also
change slowly over time.

Internally, each TSDS backing index uses <<index-modules-index-sorting,index
sorting>> to order its shard segments by `_tsid` and `@timestamp`. This makes it
more likely that these repeated values are stored near each other for better
compression. A TSDS doesn't support any
<<index-modules-index-sorting,`index.sort.*`>> index settings.

[discrete]
[[tsds-whats-next]]
=== What's next?

Now that you know the basics, you're ready to <<set-up-tsds,create a TSDS>> or
<<set-up-tsds,convert an existing data stream to a TSDS>>.

include::set-up-tsds.asciidoc[]
include::tsds-index-settings.asciidoc[]
include::downsampling.asciidoc[]
include::downsampling-manual.asciidoc[]
include::downsampling-ilm.asciidoc[]
