docs/reference/scripting/security.asciidoc, before:

[[modules-scripting-security]]
== Scripting and security
Painless and {es} implement layers of security to build a defense in depth
strategy for running scripts safely.

Painless uses a fine-grained allowlist. Anything that is not part of the
allowlist results in a compilation error. This capability is the first layer of
security in a defense in depth strategy for scripting.

In addition to user privileges and script sandboxing, {es} uses the
https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/seccodeguide.html[Java Security Manager]
and native security tools as additional layers of security.

As part of its startup sequence, {es} enables the Java Security Manager to limit
the actions that can be taken by portions of the code. 
<<modules-scripting-painless,Painless>> uses the Java Security Manager as an
additional layer of defense to prevent scripts from doing things like writing
files and listening to sockets.

{es} uses
{wikipedia}/Seccomp[seccomp] in Linux,
https://www.chromium.org/developers/design-documents/sandbox/osx-sandboxing-design[Seatbelt]
in macOS, and
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms684147[ActiveProcessLimit]
on Windows to prevent {es} from forking or executing other processes.

You can modify the default security settings for scripts to limit the type of
scripts that are allowed to run and the available 
<<painless-contexts,contexts>> that scripts can run in. 

[[allowed-script-types-setting]]
[discrete]
=== Allowed script types setting

{es} supports two script types: `inline` and `stored`. By default, {es} is 
configured to run both types of scripts. To limit what type of scripts are run, 
set `script.allowed_types` to `inline` or `stored`. To prevent any scripts from 
running, set `script.allowed_types` to `none`.

IMPORTANT: If you use {kib}, set `script.allowed_types` to `both` or `inline`.
Some {kib} features rely on inline scripts and do not function as expected
if {es} does not allow inline scripts.

For example, to run `inline` scripts but not `stored` scripts, specify:

[source,yaml]
----
script.allowed_types: inline <1>
----
<1> Only inline scripts are permitted.


[[allowed-script-contexts-setting]]
[discrete]
=== Allowed script contexts setting

By default, all script contexts are permitted. Use the `script.allowed_contexts`
setting to specify the contexts that are allowed. To specify that no contexts
are allowed, set `script.allowed_contexts` to `none`.

[source,yaml]
----
script.allowed_contexts: score, update <1>
----
<1> This will allow only scoring and update scripts to be executed but not
aggs or plugin scripts (or any other contexts).

Commit message:

Fix cross-link to Painless guide

docs/reference/scripting/security.asciidoc, after:

[[modules-scripting-security]]
== Scripting and security
Painless and {es} implement layers of security to build a defense in depth
strategy for running scripts safely.

Painless uses a fine-grained allowlist. Anything that is not part of the
allowlist results in a compilation error. This capability is the first layer of
security in a defense in depth strategy for scripting.

In addition to user privileges and script sandboxing, {es} uses the
https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/seccodeguide.html[Java Security Manager]
and native security tools as additional layers of security.

As part of its startup sequence, {es} enables the Java Security Manager to limit
the actions that can be taken by portions of the code. 
<<modules-scripting-painless,Painless>> uses the Java Security Manager as an
additional layer of defense to prevent scripts from doing things like writing
files and listening to sockets.

{es} uses
{wikipedia}/Seccomp[seccomp] in Linux,
https://www.chromium.org/developers/design-documents/sandbox/osx-sandboxing-design[Seatbelt]
in macOS, and
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms684147[ActiveProcessLimit]
on Windows to prevent {es} from forking or executing other processes.

You can modify the default security settings for scripts to limit the type of
scripts that are allowed to run and the available 
{painless}/painless-contexts.html[contexts] that scripts can run in. 

[[allowed-script-types-setting]]
[discrete]
=== Allowed script types setting

{es} supports two script types: `inline` and `stored`. By default, {es} is 
configured to run both types of scripts. To limit what type of scripts are run, 
set `script.allowed_types` to `inline` or `stored`. To prevent any scripts from 
running, set `script.allowed_types` to `none`.

IMPORTANT: If you use {kib}, set `script.allowed_types` to `both` or `inline`.
Some {kib} features rely on inline scripts and do not function as expected
if {es} does not allow inline scripts.

For example, to run `inline` scripts but not `stored` scripts, specify:

[source,yaml]
----
script.allowed_types: inline <1>
----
<1> Only inline scripts are permitted.


[[allowed-script-contexts-setting]]
[discrete]
=== Allowed script contexts setting

By default, all script contexts are permitted. Use the `script.allowed_contexts`
setting to specify the contexts that are allowed. To specify that no contexts
are allowed, set `script.allowed_contexts` to `none`.

[source,yaml]
----
script.allowed_contexts: score, update <1>
----
<1> This will allow only scoring and update scripts to be executed but not
aggs or plugin scripts (or any other contexts).
