% This is generated by ESQL's InTests. Do not edit it. See docs/reference/query-languages/esql/README.md for how to regenerate it.

### IN
The `IN` operator.



This function has quite "unique" null handling rules around `null` and multivalued
fields. The `null` rules are inspired by PostgreSQL, and, presumably, every other
SQL implementation. The multivalue rules are pretty much an extension of the "multivalued
fields are like null in scalars" rule. Here's some examples:






- `'x' IN ('a', 'b', 'c')` => @{code false}

- `'x' IN ('a', 'x', 'c')` => @{code true}

- `null IN ('a', 'b', 'c')` => @{code null}

- `['x', 'y'] IN ('a', 'b', 'c')` => @{code null} and a warning

- `'x' IN ('a', null, 'c')` => @{code null}

- `'x' IN ('x', null, 'c')` => @{code true}

- `'x' IN ('x', ['a', 'b'], 'c')` => @{code true} and a warning

- `'x' IN ('a', ['a', 'b'], 'c')` => @{code false} and a warning







And here's the decision tree for `WHERE x IN (a, b, c)`:






- `x IS NULL` => return `null`

- `MV_COUNT(x) > 1` => emit a warning and return `null`

- `a IS NULL AND b IS NULL AND c IS NULL` => return `null`

- `MV_COUNT(a) > 1 OR MV_COUNT(b) > 1 OR MV_COUNT(c) > 1` => emit a warning and continue

- `MV_COUNT(a) > 1 AND MV_COUNT(b) > 1 AND MV_COUNT(c) > 1` => return `null`

- `x == a OR x == b OR x == c` => return `true`

- `a IS NULL OR b IS NULL OR c IS NULL` => return `null`

- `else` => `false`







I believe the first five entries are *mostly* optimizations and making the
[Three-valued logic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-valued_logic) of SQL
explicit and integrated with our multivalue field rules. And make all that work with the
actual evaluator code. You could probably shorten this to the last three points, but lots
of folks aren't familiar with SQL's three-valued logic anyway, so let's be explicit.






Because of this chain of logic we don't use the standard evaluator generators. They'd just
require too many special cases and nothing else quite works like this. I mean, everything
works just like this in that "three-valued logic" sort of way, but not in the "java code"
sort of way. So! Instead of using the standard evaluator generators we use the
String Template generators that we use for things like Block and Vector.

```esql
ROW a = 1, b = 4, c = 3
| WHERE c-a IN (3, b / 2, a)
```
