docs/reference/ml/anomaly-detection/apis/put-job.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[ml-put-job]]
= Create {anomaly-jobs} API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create jobs</titleabbrev>
++++

Instantiates an {anomaly-job}.

[[ml-put-job-request]]
== {api-request-title}

`PUT _ml/anomaly_detectors/<job_id>`

[[ml-put-job-prereqs]]
== {api-prereq-title}

Requires the `manage_ml` cluster privilege. This privilege is included in the
`machine_learning_admin` built-in role.

[[ml-put-job-desc]]
== {api-description-title}

IMPORTANT: You must use {kib} or this API to create an {anomaly-job}. Do not put
a job directly to the `.ml-config` index using the {es} index API. If {es}
{security-features} are enabled, do not give users `write` privileges on the
`.ml-config` index.

[[ml-put-job-path-parms]]
== {api-path-parms-title}

`<job_id>`::
(Required, string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=job-id-anomaly-detection-define]

[role="child_attributes"]
[[ml-put-job-request-body]]
== {api-request-body-title}

`allow_lazy_open`::
(Optional, Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=allow-lazy-open]

//Begin analysis_config
[[put-analysisconfig]]`analysis_config`::
(Required, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=analysis-config]
+
.Properties of `analysis_config`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`bucket_span`:::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=bucket-span]

`categorization_analyzer`:::
(object or string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-analyzer]

`categorization_field_name`:::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-field-name]

`categorization_filters`:::
(array of strings)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-filters]

//Begin analysis_config.detectors
`detectors`:::
(array) An array of detector configuration objects. Detector configuration
objects specify which data fields a job analyzes. They also specify which
analytical functions are used. You can specify multiple detectors for a job.
+
NOTE: If the `detectors` array does not contain at least one detector,
no analysis can occur and an error is returned.
+
.Properties of `detectors`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`by_field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=by-field-name]

//Begin analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules
[[put-customrules]]`custom_rules`::::
(array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules]
+
.Properties of `custom_rules`
[%collapsible%open]
======

`actions`:::
(array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-actions]

//Begin analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.conditions
`conditions`:::
(array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions]
+
.Properties of `conditions`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
`applies_to`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions-applies-to]

`operator`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions-operator]

`value`::::
(double)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions-value]
=======
//End analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.conditions

//Begin analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.scope
`scope`:::
(object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-scope]
+
.Properties of `scope`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
`filter_id`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-scope-filter-id]

`filter_type`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-scope-filter-type]
=======
//End analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.scope
======
//End analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules

`detector_description`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=detector-description]

`detector_index`::::
(integer)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=detector-index]
+
If you specify a value for this property, it is ignored.

`exclude_frequent`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=exclude-frequent]

`field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=detector-field-name]

`function`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=function]

`over_field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=over-field-name]

`partition_field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=partition-field-name]

`use_null`::::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=use-null]
=====
//End analysis_config.detectors

`influencers`:::
(array of strings)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=influencers]

`latency`:::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=latency]

`model_prune_window`:::
(Optional, <<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-prune-window]

`multivariate_by_fields`:::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=multivariate-by-fields]

//Begin analysis_config.per_partition_categorization
`per_partition_categorization`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=per-partition-categorization]
+
.Properties of `per_partition_categorization`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`enabled`::::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=per-partition-categorization-enabled]

`stop_on_warn`::::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=per-partition-categorization-stop-on-warn]
=====
//End analysis_config.per_partition_categorization

`summary_count_field_name`:::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=summary-count-field-name]
====
//End analysis_config

//Begin analysis_limits
[[put-analysislimits]]`analysis_limits`::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=analysis-limits]
+
.Properties of `analysis_limits`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`categorization_examples_limit`:::
(long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-examples-limit]

`model_memory_limit`:::
(long or string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-memory-limit-ad]
====
//End analysis_limits

`background_persist_interval`::
(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=background-persist-interval]

[[put-customsettings]]`custom_settings`::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-settings]

`daily_model_snapshot_retention_after_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=daily-model-snapshot-retention-after-days]

//Begin data_description
[[put-datadescription]]`data_description`::
(Required, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=data-description]
//End data_description

`datafeed_config`::
(object) The {dfeed} configured for the current {anomaly-job}.
+
.Properties of `datafeed`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`aggregations`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=aggregations]

`chunking_config`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=chunking-config]
+
.Properties of `chunking_config`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`mode`:::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=mode]

`time_span`:::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=time-span]
=====

`datafeed_id`:::
(Optional, string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=datafeed-id]
+
Defaults to the same ID as the {anomaly-job}.

`delayed_data_check_config`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=delayed-data-check-config]
+
.Properties of `delayed_data_check_config`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`check_window`::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=delayed-data-check-config-check-window]

`enabled`::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=delayed-data-check-config-enabled]
=====

`frequency`:::
(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=frequency]

`indices`:::
(Required, array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=indices]

`indices_options`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=indices-options]

`max_empty_searches`:::
(Optional,integer)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=max-empty-searches]

`query`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=query]

`query_delay`:::
(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=query-delay]

`runtime_mappings`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=runtime-mappings]

`script_fields`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=script-fields]

`scroll_size`:::
(Optional, unsigned integer)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=scroll-size]
====

`description`::
(Optional, string) A description of the job.

`groups`::
(Optional, array of strings)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=groups]

//Begin model_plot_config
`model_plot_config`::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config]
+
.Properties of `model_plot_config`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`annotations_enabled`:::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config-annotations-enabled]

`enabled`:::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config-enabled]

`terms`:::
experimental[] (string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config-terms]
====
//End model_plot_config

`model_snapshot_retention_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-snapshot-retention-days]

`renormalization_window_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=renormalization-window-days]

`results_index_name`::
(Optional, string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=results-index-name]

`results_retention_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=results-retention-days]

[[ml-put-job-example]]
== {api-examples-title}

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ml/anomaly_detectors/total-requests
{
  "description" : "Total sum of requests",
  "analysis_config" : {
    "bucket_span":"10m",
    "detectors": [
      {
        "detector_description": "Sum of total",
        "function": "sum",
        "field_name": "total"
      }
    ]
  },
  "data_description" : {
    "time_field":"timestamp",
    "time_format": "epoch_ms"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

When the job is created, you receive the following results:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "job_id" : "total-requests",
  "job_type" : "anomaly_detector",
  "job_version" : "7.5.0",
  "description" : "Total sum of requests",
  "create_time" : 1562352500629,
  "analysis_config" : {
    "bucket_span" : "10m",
    "detectors" : [
      {
        "detector_description" : "Sum of total",
        "function" : "sum",
        "field_name" : "total",
        "detector_index" : 0
      }
    ],
    "influencers" : [ ]
  },
  "analysis_limits" : {
    "model_memory_limit" : "1024mb",
    "categorization_examples_limit" : 4
  },
  "data_description" : {
    "time_field" : "timestamp",
    "time_format" : "epoch_ms"
  },
  "model_snapshot_retention_days" : 10,
  "daily_model_snapshot_retention_after_days" : 1,
  "results_index_name" : "shared",
  "allow_lazy_open" : false
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"job_version" : "7.5.0"/"job_version" : $body.job_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1562352500629/$body.$_path/]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Update datafeed details in ML docs (#76854) (#76949)

docs/reference/ml/anomaly-detection/apis/put-job.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[ml-put-job]]
= Create {anomaly-jobs} API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create jobs</titleabbrev>
++++

Instantiates an {anomaly-job}.

[[ml-put-job-request]]
== {api-request-title}

`PUT _ml/anomaly_detectors/<job_id>`

[[ml-put-job-prereqs]]
== {api-prereq-title}

Requires the `manage_ml` cluster privilege. This privilege is included in the
`machine_learning_admin` built-in role.

If you include a `datafeed_config`, you must also have `read` index privileges
on the source index.

[[ml-put-job-desc]]
== {api-description-title}

[IMPORTANT]
====
* You must use {kib} or this API to create an {anomaly-job}. Do not put
a job directly to the `.ml-config` index using the {es} index API. If {es}
{security-features} are enabled, do not give users `write` privileges on the
`.ml-config` index.
* If you include a `datafeed_config` and {es} {security-features} are enabled,
your {dfeed} remembers which roles the user who created it had at the time of
creation and runs the query using those same roles. If you provide
<<http-clients-secondary-authorization,secondary authorization headers>>, those
credentials are used instead.
====

[[ml-put-job-path-parms]]
== {api-path-parms-title}

`<job_id>`::
(Required, string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=job-id-anomaly-detection-define]

[role="child_attributes"]
[[ml-put-job-request-body]]
== {api-request-body-title}

`allow_lazy_open`::
(Optional, Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=allow-lazy-open]

//Begin analysis_config
[[put-analysisconfig]]`analysis_config`::
(Required, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=analysis-config]
+
.Properties of `analysis_config`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`bucket_span`:::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=bucket-span]

`categorization_analyzer`:::
(object or string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-analyzer]

`categorization_field_name`:::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-field-name]

`categorization_filters`:::
(array of strings)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-filters]

//Begin analysis_config.detectors
`detectors`:::
(array) An array of detector configuration objects. Detector configuration
objects specify which data fields a job analyzes. They also specify which
analytical functions are used. You can specify multiple detectors for a job.
+
NOTE: If the `detectors` array does not contain at least one detector,
no analysis can occur and an error is returned.
+
.Properties of `detectors`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`by_field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=by-field-name]

//Begin analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules
[[put-customrules]]`custom_rules`::::
(array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules]
+
.Properties of `custom_rules`
[%collapsible%open]
======

`actions`:::
(array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-actions]

//Begin analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.conditions
`conditions`:::
(array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions]
+
.Properties of `conditions`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
`applies_to`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions-applies-to]

`operator`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions-operator]

`value`::::
(double)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-conditions-value]
=======
//End analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.conditions

//Begin analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.scope
`scope`:::
(object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-scope]
+
.Properties of `scope`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
`filter_id`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-scope-filter-id]

`filter_type`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-rules-scope-filter-type]
=======
//End analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules.scope
======
//End analysis_config.detectors.custom_rules

`detector_description`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=detector-description]

`detector_index`::::
(integer)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=detector-index]
+
If you specify a value for this property, it is ignored.

`exclude_frequent`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=exclude-frequent]

`field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=detector-field-name]

`function`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=function]

`over_field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=over-field-name]

`partition_field_name`::::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=partition-field-name]

`use_null`::::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=use-null]
=====
//End analysis_config.detectors

`influencers`:::
(array of strings)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=influencers]

`latency`:::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=latency]

`model_prune_window`:::
(Optional, <<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-prune-window]

`multivariate_by_fields`:::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=multivariate-by-fields]

//Begin analysis_config.per_partition_categorization
`per_partition_categorization`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=per-partition-categorization]
+
.Properties of `per_partition_categorization`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`enabled`::::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=per-partition-categorization-enabled]

`stop_on_warn`::::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=per-partition-categorization-stop-on-warn]
=====
//End analysis_config.per_partition_categorization

`summary_count_field_name`:::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=summary-count-field-name]
====
//End analysis_config

//Begin analysis_limits
[[put-analysislimits]]`analysis_limits`::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=analysis-limits]
+
.Properties of `analysis_limits`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`categorization_examples_limit`:::
(long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=categorization-examples-limit]

`model_memory_limit`:::
(long or string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-memory-limit-ad]
====
//End analysis_limits

`background_persist_interval`::
(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=background-persist-interval]

[[put-customsettings]]`custom_settings`::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=custom-settings]

`daily_model_snapshot_retention_after_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=daily-model-snapshot-retention-after-days]

//Begin data_description
[[put-datadescription]]`data_description`::
(Required, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=data-description]
//End data_description

`datafeed_config`::
(Optional, object) The {ml-docs}/ml-dfeeds.html[{dfeed}], which retrieves data
from {es} for analysis by the job. You can associate only one {dfeed} with each
{anomaly-job}.
+
.Properties of `datafeed`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`aggregations`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=aggregations]

`chunking_config`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=chunking-config]
+
.Properties of `chunking_config`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`mode`:::
(string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=mode]

`time_span`:::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=time-span]
=====

`datafeed_id`:::
(Optional, string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=datafeed-id]
+
Defaults to the same ID as the {anomaly-job}.

`delayed_data_check_config`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=delayed-data-check-config]
+
.Properties of `delayed_data_check_config`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`check_window`::
(<<time-units,time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=delayed-data-check-config-check-window]

`enabled`::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=delayed-data-check-config-enabled]
=====

`frequency`:::
(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=frequency]

`indices`:::
(Required, array)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=indices]

`indices_options`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=indices-options]

`max_empty_searches`:::
(Optional,integer)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=max-empty-searches]

`query`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=query]

`query_delay`:::
(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=query-delay]

`runtime_mappings`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=runtime-mappings]

`script_fields`:::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=script-fields]

`scroll_size`:::
(Optional, unsigned integer)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=scroll-size]
====

`description`::
(Optional, string) A description of the job.

`groups`::
(Optional, array of strings)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=groups]

//Begin model_plot_config
`model_plot_config`::
(Optional, object)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config]
+
.Properties of `model_plot_config`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`annotations_enabled`:::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config-annotations-enabled]

`enabled`:::
(Boolean)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config-enabled]

`terms`:::
experimental[] (string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-plot-config-terms]
====
//End model_plot_config

`model_snapshot_retention_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-snapshot-retention-days]

`renormalization_window_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=renormalization-window-days]

`results_index_name`::
(Optional, string)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=results-index-name]

`results_retention_days`::
(Optional, long)
include::{es-repo-dir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=results-retention-days]

[[ml-put-job-example]]
== {api-examples-title}

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ml/anomaly_detectors/total-requests
{
  "description" : "Total sum of requests",
  "analysis_config" : {
    "bucket_span":"10m",
    "detectors": [
      {
        "detector_description": "Sum of total",
        "function": "sum",
        "field_name": "total"
      }
    ]
  },
  "data_description" : {
    "time_field":"timestamp",
    "time_format": "epoch_ms"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

When the job is created, you receive the following results:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "job_id" : "total-requests",
  "job_type" : "anomaly_detector",
  "job_version" : "7.5.0",
  "description" : "Total sum of requests",
  "create_time" : 1562352500629,
  "analysis_config" : {
    "bucket_span" : "10m",
    "detectors" : [
      {
        "detector_description" : "Sum of total",
        "function" : "sum",
        "field_name" : "total",
        "detector_index" : 0
      }
    ],
    "influencers" : [ ]
  },
  "analysis_limits" : {
    "model_memory_limit" : "1024mb",
    "categorization_examples_limit" : 4
  },
  "data_description" : {
    "time_field" : "timestamp",
    "time_format" : "epoch_ms"
  },
  "model_snapshot_retention_days" : 10,
  "daily_model_snapshot_retention_after_days" : 1,
  "results_index_name" : "shared",
  "allow_lazy_open" : false
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"job_version" : "7.5.0"/"job_version" : $body.job_version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1562352500629/$body.$_path/]
