docs/reference/modules/discovery/adding-removing-nodes.asciidoc, before:

[[modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes]]
=== Adding and removing nodes

As nodes are added or removed Elasticsearch maintains an optimal level of fault
tolerance by automatically updating the cluster's _voting configuration_, which
is the set of <<master-node,master-eligible nodes>> whose responses are counted
when making decisions such as electing a new master or committing a new cluster
state.

It is recommended to have a small and fixed number of master-eligible nodes in a
cluster, and to scale the cluster up and down by adding and removing
master-ineligible nodes only. However there are situations in which it may be
desirable to add or remove some master-eligible nodes to or from a cluster.

[[modules-discovery-adding-nodes]]
==== Adding master-eligible nodes

If you wish to add some nodes to your cluster, simply configure the new nodes
to find the existing cluster and start them up. Elasticsearch adds the new nodes
to the voting configuration if it is appropriate to do so.

During master election or when joining an existing formed cluster, a node
sends a join request to the master in order to be officially added to the
cluster. You can use the `cluster.join.timeout` setting to configure how long a
node waits after sending a request to join a cluster. Its default value is `30s`.
See <<modules-discovery-settings>>.

[[modules-discovery-removing-nodes]]
==== Removing master-eligible nodes

When removing master-eligible nodes, it is important not to remove too many all
at the same time. For instance, if there are currently seven master-eligible
nodes and you wish to reduce this to three, it is not possible simply to stop
four of the nodes at once: to do so would leave only three nodes remaining,
which is less than half of the voting configuration, which means the cluster
cannot take any further actions.

As long as there are at least three master-eligible nodes in the cluster, as a
general rule it is best to remove nodes one-at-a-time, allowing enough time for
the cluster to <<modules-discovery-quorums,automatically adjust>> the voting
configuration and adapt the fault tolerance level to the new set of nodes.

If there are only two master-eligible nodes remaining then neither node can be
safely removed since both are required to reliably make progress. You must first
inform Elasticsearch that one of the nodes should not be part of the voting
configuration, and that the voting power should instead be given to other nodes.
You can then take the excluded node offline without preventing the other node
from making progress. A node which is added to a voting configuration exclusion
list still works normally, but Elasticsearch tries to remove it from the voting
configuration so its vote is no longer required.  Importantly, Elasticsearch
will never automatically move a node on the voting exclusions list back into the
voting configuration. Once an excluded node has been successfully
auto-reconfigured out of the voting configuration, it is safe to shut it down
without affecting the cluster's master-level availability. A node can be added
to the voting configuration exclusion list using the <<voting-config-exclusions>> API. For example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
# Add node to voting configuration exclusions list and wait for the system to
# auto-reconfigure the node out of the voting configuration up to the default
# timeout of 30 seconds
POST /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions/node_name

# Add node to voting configuration exclusions list and wait for
# auto-reconfiguration up to one minute
POST /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions/node_name?timeout=1m
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[skip:this would break the test cluster if executed]

The node that should be added to the exclusions list is specified using
<<cluster-nodes,node filters>> in place of `node_name` here. If a call to the
voting configuration exclusions API fails, you can safely retry it.  Only a
successful response guarantees that the node has actually been removed from the
voting configuration and will not be reinstated.

Although the voting configuration exclusions API is most useful for down-scaling
a two-node to a one-node cluster, it is also possible to use it to remove
multiple master-eligible nodes all at the same time. Adding multiple nodes to
the exclusions list has the system try to auto-reconfigure all of these nodes
out of the voting configuration, allowing them to be safely shut down while
keeping the cluster available. In the example described above, shrinking a
seven-master-node cluster down to only have three master nodes, you could add
four nodes to the exclusions list, wait for confirmation, and then shut them
down simultaneously.

NOTE: Voting exclusions are only required when removing at least half of the
master-eligible nodes from a cluster in a short time period. They are not
required when removing master-ineligible nodes, nor are they required when
removing fewer than half of the master-eligible nodes.

Adding an exclusion for a node creates an entry for that node in the voting
configuration exclusions list, which has the system automatically try to
reconfigure the voting configuration to remove that node and prevents it from
returning to the voting configuration once it has removed. The current list of
exclusions is stored in the cluster state and can be inspected as follows:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/state?filter_path=metadata.cluster_coordination.voting_config_exclusions
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

This list is limited in size by the `cluster.max_voting_config_exclusions` 
setting, which defaults to `10`. See <<modules-discovery-settings>>. Since
voting configuration exclusions are persistent and limited in number, they must
be cleaned up. Normally an exclusion is added when performing some maintenance
on the cluster, and the exclusions should be cleaned up when the maintenance is
complete. Clusters should have no voting configuration exclusions in normal
operation.

If a node is excluded from the voting configuration because it is to be shut
down permanently, its exclusion can be removed after it is shut down and removed
from the cluster. Exclusions can also be cleared if they were created in error
or were only required temporarily:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
# Wait for all the nodes with voting configuration exclusions to be removed from
# the cluster and then remove all the exclusions, allowing any node to return to
# the voting configuration in the future.
DELETE /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions

# Immediately remove all the voting configuration exclusions, allowing any node
# to return to the voting configuration in the future.
DELETE /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions?wait_for_removal=false
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Commit message:

Step down as master when configured out of voting configuration (#37802)
Abdicates to another master-eligible node once the active master is reconfigured out of the voting
configuration, for example through the use of voting configuration exclusions.

Follow-up to #37712

docs/reference/modules/discovery/adding-removing-nodes.asciidoc, after:

[[modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes]]
=== Adding and removing nodes

As nodes are added or removed Elasticsearch maintains an optimal level of fault
tolerance by automatically updating the cluster's _voting configuration_, which
is the set of <<master-node,master-eligible nodes>> whose responses are counted
when making decisions such as electing a new master or committing a new cluster
state.

It is recommended to have a small and fixed number of master-eligible nodes in a
cluster, and to scale the cluster up and down by adding and removing
master-ineligible nodes only. However there are situations in which it may be
desirable to add or remove some master-eligible nodes to or from a cluster.

[[modules-discovery-adding-nodes]]
==== Adding master-eligible nodes

If you wish to add some nodes to your cluster, simply configure the new nodes
to find the existing cluster and start them up. Elasticsearch adds the new nodes
to the voting configuration if it is appropriate to do so.

During master election or when joining an existing formed cluster, a node
sends a join request to the master in order to be officially added to the
cluster. You can use the `cluster.join.timeout` setting to configure how long a
node waits after sending a request to join a cluster. Its default value is `30s`.
See <<modules-discovery-settings>>.

[[modules-discovery-removing-nodes]]
==== Removing master-eligible nodes

When removing master-eligible nodes, it is important not to remove too many all
at the same time. For instance, if there are currently seven master-eligible
nodes and you wish to reduce this to three, it is not possible simply to stop
four of the nodes at once: to do so would leave only three nodes remaining,
which is less than half of the voting configuration, which means the cluster
cannot take any further actions.

As long as there are at least three master-eligible nodes in the cluster, as a
general rule it is best to remove nodes one-at-a-time, allowing enough time for
the cluster to <<modules-discovery-quorums,automatically adjust>> the voting
configuration and adapt the fault tolerance level to the new set of nodes.

If there are only two master-eligible nodes remaining then neither node can be
safely removed since both are required to reliably make progress. You must first
inform Elasticsearch that one of the nodes should not be part of the voting
configuration, and that the voting power should instead be given to other nodes.
You can then take the excluded node offline without preventing the other node
from making progress. A node which is added to a voting configuration exclusion
list still works normally, but Elasticsearch tries to remove it from the voting
configuration so its vote is no longer required.  Importantly, Elasticsearch
will never automatically move a node on the voting exclusions list back into the
voting configuration. Once an excluded node has been successfully
auto-reconfigured out of the voting configuration, it is safe to shut it down
without affecting the cluster's master-level availability. A node can be added
to the voting configuration exclusion list using the <<voting-config-exclusions>> API. For example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
# Add node to voting configuration exclusions list and wait for the system to
# auto-reconfigure the node out of the voting configuration up to the default
# timeout of 30 seconds
POST /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions/node_name

# Add node to voting configuration exclusions list and wait for
# auto-reconfiguration up to one minute
POST /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions/node_name?timeout=1m
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[skip:this would break the test cluster if executed]

The node that should be added to the exclusions list is specified using
<<cluster-nodes,node filters>> in place of `node_name` here. If a call to the
voting configuration exclusions API fails, you can safely retry it.  Only a
successful response guarantees that the node has actually been removed from the
voting configuration and will not be reinstated. If it's the active master that
was removed from the voting configuration, then it will abdicate to another
master-eligible node that's still in the voting configuration, if such a node
is available.

Although the voting configuration exclusions API is most useful for down-scaling
a two-node to a one-node cluster, it is also possible to use it to remove
multiple master-eligible nodes all at the same time. Adding multiple nodes to
the exclusions list has the system try to auto-reconfigure all of these nodes
out of the voting configuration, allowing them to be safely shut down while
keeping the cluster available. In the example described above, shrinking a
seven-master-node cluster down to only have three master nodes, you could add
four nodes to the exclusions list, wait for confirmation, and then shut them
down simultaneously.

NOTE: Voting exclusions are only required when removing at least half of the
master-eligible nodes from a cluster in a short time period. They are not
required when removing master-ineligible nodes, nor are they required when
removing fewer than half of the master-eligible nodes.

Adding an exclusion for a node creates an entry for that node in the voting
configuration exclusions list, which has the system automatically try to
reconfigure the voting configuration to remove that node and prevents it from
returning to the voting configuration once it has removed. The current list of
exclusions is stored in the cluster state and can be inspected as follows:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/state?filter_path=metadata.cluster_coordination.voting_config_exclusions
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

This list is limited in size by the `cluster.max_voting_config_exclusions` 
setting, which defaults to `10`. See <<modules-discovery-settings>>. Since
voting configuration exclusions are persistent and limited in number, they must
be cleaned up. Normally an exclusion is added when performing some maintenance
on the cluster, and the exclusions should be cleaned up when the maintenance is
complete. Clusters should have no voting configuration exclusions in normal
operation.

If a node is excluded from the voting configuration because it is to be shut
down permanently, its exclusion can be removed after it is shut down and removed
from the cluster. Exclusions can also be cleared if they were created in error
or were only required temporarily:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
# Wait for all the nodes with voting configuration exclusions to be removed from
# the cluster and then remove all the exclusions, allowing any node to return to
# the voting configuration in the future.
DELETE /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions

# Immediately remove all the voting configuration exclusions, allowing any node
# to return to the voting configuration in the future.
DELETE /_cluster/voting_config_exclusions?wait_for_removal=false
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
