x-pack/docs/en/security/configuring-es.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[configuring-security]]
== Configuring security in {es}
++++
<titleabbrev>Configuring security</titleabbrev>
++++

The {es} {security-features} enable you to easily secure a cluster. You can
password-protect your data as well as implement more advanced security measures
such as encrypting communications, role-based access control, IP filtering, and
auditing. For more information, see
{stack-ov}/elasticsearch-security.html[Securing the {stack}].

To use {es} {security-features}:

. Verify that you are using a license that includes the {security-features}.
+
--
If you want to try all of the platinum features, you can start a 30-day trial.
At the end of the trial period, you can purchase a subscription to keep using
the full functionality. For more information, see
https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions and
{stack-ov}/license-management.html[License Management].
--

. Verify that the `xpack.security.enabled` setting is `true` on each node in
your cluster. If you are using a trial license, the default value is `false`.
For more information, see {ref}/security-settings.html[Security Settings in {es}].

. If you plan to run {es} in a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 
140-2 enabled JVM, see <<fips-140-compliance>>. 

. Configure Transport Layer Security (TLS/SSL) for internode-communication.
+
--
NOTE: This requirement applies to clusters with more than one node and to
clusters with a single node that listens on an external interface. Single-node
clusters that use a loopback interface do not have this requirement.  For more
information, see
{stack-ov}/encrypting-communications.html[Encrypting Communications].

--
.. <<node-certificates,Generate node certificates for each of your {es} nodes>>.

.. <<tls-transport, Enable TLS on each {es} node>>.

. If it is not already running, start {es}.

. Set the passwords for all built-in users.
+
--
The {es} {security-features} provide
{stack-ov}/built-in-users.html[built-in users] to
help you get up and running. The +elasticsearch-setup-passwords+ command is the
simplest method to set the built-in users' passwords for the first time.

For example, you can run the command in an "interactive" mode, which prompts you
to enter new passwords for the `elastic`, `kibana`, `beats_system`,
`logstash_system`, and `apm_system` users:

[source,shell]
--------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-setup-passwords interactive
--------------------------------------------------

For more information about the command options, see <<setup-passwords>>.

IMPORTANT: The `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` command uses a transient bootstrap
password that is no longer valid after the command runs successfully. You cannot
run the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` command a second time. Instead, you can
update passwords from the **Management > Users** UI in {kib} or use the security
user API.

--

. Choose which types of realms you want to use to authenticate users. 
** <<configuring-ad-realm,Configure an Active Directory realm>>.
** <<configuring-file-realm,Configure a file realm>>.
** <<configuring-ldap-realm,Configure an LDAP realm>>.
** <<configuring-native-realm,Configure a native realm>>.
** <<configuring-pki-realm,Configure a PKI realm>>.
** <<configuring-saml-realm,Configure a SAML realm>>.
** <<configuring-kerberos-realm,Configure a Kerberos realm>>.

. Set up roles and users to control access to {es}.
For example, to grant _John Doe_ full access to all indices that match
the pattern `events*` and enable him to create visualizations and dashboards
for those indices in {kib}, you could create an `events_admin` role
and assign the role to a new `johndoe` user.
+
--
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------
curl -XPOST -u elastic 'localhost:9200/_security/role/events_admin' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "indices" : [
    {
      "names" : [ "events*" ],
      "privileges" : [ "all" ]
    },
    {
      "names" : [ ".kibana*" ],
      "privileges" : [ "manage", "read", "index" ]
    }
  ]
}'

curl -XPOST -u elastic 'localhost:9200/_security/user/johndoe' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "password" : "userpassword",
  "full_name" : "John Doe",
  "email" : "john.doe@anony.mous",
  "roles" : [ "events_admin" ]
}'
----------------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
--

[[enable-auditing]]
. Enable auditing to keep track of attempted and successful interactions with
  your {es} cluster:
+
--
.. Add the following setting to `elasticsearch.yml` on all nodes in your cluster:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.enabled: true
----------------------------
+
For more information, see {stack-ov}/auditing.html[Auditing Security Events] 
and <<auditing-settings>>. 

.. Restart {es}.

By default, events are logged to a dedicated `elasticsearch-access.log` file in
`ES_HOME/logs`. You can also store the events in an {es} index for
easier analysis and control what events are logged. 
--

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/securing-elasticsearch.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/securing-elasticsearch.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/configuring-tls-docker.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/configuring-tls-docker.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/enabling-cipher-suites.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/enabling-cipher-suites.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/separating-node-client-traffic.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/separating-node-client-traffic.asciidoc[]
:edit_url:
include::authentication/configuring-active-directory-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-file-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-ldap-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-native-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-pki-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-saml-realm.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/configuring-kerberos-realm.asciidoc
include::authentication/configuring-kerberos-realm.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: 
include::fips-140-compliance.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/settings/security-settings.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/security-settings.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/reference/files.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/reference/files.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/settings/audit-settings.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/audit-settings.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Remove index audit output type (#37707)
This commit removes the Index Audit Output type, following its deprecation
in 6.7 by 8765a31d4e6770. It also adds the migration notice (settings notice).

In general, the problem with the index audit output is that event indexing
can be slower than the rate with which audit events are generated,
especially during the daily rollovers or the rolling cluster upgrades.
In this situation audit events will be lost which is a terrible failure situation
for an audit system.
Besides of the settings under the `xpack.security.audit.index` namespace, the
`xpack.security.audit.outputs` setting has also been deprecated and will be
removed in 7. Although explicitly configuring the logfile output does not touch
any deprecation bits, this setting is made redundant in 7 so this PR deprecates
it as well.

Relates #29881

x-pack/docs/en/security/configuring-es.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[configuring-security]]
== Configuring security in {es}
++++
<titleabbrev>Configuring security</titleabbrev>
++++

The {es} {security-features} enable you to easily secure a cluster. You can
password-protect your data as well as implement more advanced security measures
such as encrypting communications, role-based access control, IP filtering, and
auditing. For more information, see
{stack-ov}/elasticsearch-security.html[Securing the {stack}].

To use {es} {security-features}:

. Verify that you are using a license that includes the {security-features}.
+
--
If you want to try all of the platinum features, you can start a 30-day trial.
At the end of the trial period, you can purchase a subscription to keep using
the full functionality. For more information, see
https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions and
{stack-ov}/license-management.html[License Management].
--

. Verify that the `xpack.security.enabled` setting is `true` on each node in
your cluster. If you are using a trial license, the default value is `false`.
For more information, see {ref}/security-settings.html[Security Settings in {es}].

. If you plan to run {es} in a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 
140-2 enabled JVM, see <<fips-140-compliance>>. 

. Configure Transport Layer Security (TLS/SSL) for internode-communication.
+
--
NOTE: This requirement applies to clusters with more than one node and to
clusters with a single node that listens on an external interface. Single-node
clusters that use a loopback interface do not have this requirement.  For more
information, see
{stack-ov}/encrypting-communications.html[Encrypting Communications].

--
.. <<node-certificates,Generate node certificates for each of your {es} nodes>>.

.. <<tls-transport, Enable TLS on each {es} node>>.

. If it is not already running, start {es}.

. Set the passwords for all built-in users.
+
--
The {es} {security-features} provide
{stack-ov}/built-in-users.html[built-in users] to
help you get up and running. The +elasticsearch-setup-passwords+ command is the
simplest method to set the built-in users' passwords for the first time.

For example, you can run the command in an "interactive" mode, which prompts you
to enter new passwords for the `elastic`, `kibana`, `beats_system`,
`logstash_system`, and `apm_system` users:

[source,shell]
--------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-setup-passwords interactive
--------------------------------------------------

For more information about the command options, see <<setup-passwords>>.

IMPORTANT: The `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` command uses a transient bootstrap
password that is no longer valid after the command runs successfully. You cannot
run the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` command a second time. Instead, you can
update passwords from the **Management > Users** UI in {kib} or use the security
user API.

--

. Choose which types of realms you want to use to authenticate users. 
** <<configuring-ad-realm,Configure an Active Directory realm>>.
** <<configuring-file-realm,Configure a file realm>>.
** <<configuring-ldap-realm,Configure an LDAP realm>>.
** <<configuring-native-realm,Configure a native realm>>.
** <<configuring-pki-realm,Configure a PKI realm>>.
** <<configuring-saml-realm,Configure a SAML realm>>.
** <<configuring-kerberos-realm,Configure a Kerberos realm>>.

. Set up roles and users to control access to {es}.
For example, to grant _John Doe_ full access to all indices that match
the pattern `events*` and enable him to create visualizations and dashboards
for those indices in {kib}, you could create an `events_admin` role
and assign the role to a new `johndoe` user.
+
--
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------
curl -XPOST -u elastic 'localhost:9200/_security/role/events_admin' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "indices" : [
    {
      "names" : [ "events*" ],
      "privileges" : [ "all" ]
    },
    {
      "names" : [ ".kibana*" ],
      "privileges" : [ "manage", "read", "index" ]
    }
  ]
}'

curl -XPOST -u elastic 'localhost:9200/_security/user/johndoe' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "password" : "userpassword",
  "full_name" : "John Doe",
  "email" : "john.doe@anony.mous",
  "roles" : [ "events_admin" ]
}'
----------------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
--

[[enable-auditing]]
. Enable auditing to keep track of attempted and successful interactions with
  your {es} cluster:
+
--
.. Add the following setting to `elasticsearch.yml` on all nodes in your cluster:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.enabled: true
----------------------------
+
For more information, see {stack-ov}/auditing.html[Auditing Security Events] 
and <<auditing-settings>>. 

.. Restart {es}.

Events are logged to a dedicated `<clustername>_audit.log` file in
`ES_HOME/logs`, on each cluster node.
--

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/securing-elasticsearch.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/securing-elasticsearch.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/configuring-tls-docker.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/configuring-tls-docker.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/enabling-cipher-suites.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/enabling-cipher-suites.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/securing-communications/separating-node-client-traffic.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/securing-communications/separating-node-client-traffic.asciidoc[]
:edit_url:
include::authentication/configuring-active-directory-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-file-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-ldap-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-native-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-pki-realm.asciidoc[]
include::authentication/configuring-saml-realm.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/configuring-kerberos-realm.asciidoc
include::authentication/configuring-kerberos-realm.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: 
include::fips-140-compliance.asciidoc[]
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/settings/security-settings.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/security-settings.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/security/reference/files.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/security/reference/files.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/edit/{branch}/docs/reference/settings/audit-settings.asciidoc
include::{es-repo-dir}/settings/audit-settings.asciidoc[]
