x-pack/docs/en/security/es-security-principles.asciidoc, before:

[[es-security-principles]]
== {es} security principles
Protecting your {es} cluster and the data it contains is of utmost importance.
Implementing a defense in depth strategy provides multiple layers of security
to help safeguard your system. The following principles provide a foundation
for running {es} in a secure manner that helps to mitigate attacks on your
system at multiple levels.

[discrete]
[[security-run-with-security]]
=== Run {es} with security enabled
Never run an {es} cluster without security enabled. This principle cannot be
overstated. Running {es} without security leaves your cluster exposed to anyone
who can send network traffic to {es}, permitting these individuals to download,
modify, or delete any data in your cluster.
<<configuring-stack-security,Start the {stack} with security enabled>> or
<<manually-configure-security,manually configure security>> to prevent
unauthorized access to your clusters and ensure that internode communication
is secure. 

[discrete]
[[security-not-root-user]]
=== Don't run {es} as `root`
Never run {es} as the `root` user. Running as the `root` user sheds a layer of
security in your defense in depth strategy and permits a user to do *anything*
on your server. {es} will refuse to start if it detects that it is running as
`root`, but it's worth double (or triple) checking the user that {es} runs as. 

[discrete]
[[security-protect-cluster-traffic]]
=== Protect {es} from public internet traffic
Even with security enabled, never expose {es} to public internet traffic.
Using an application to sanitize requests to {es} still poses risks, such as
a malicious user writing <<search,`_search`>> requests that could overwhelm an
{es} cluster and bring it down. Keep {es} as isolated as possible, preferably
behind a firewall and a VPN. Any internet-facing applications should run 
pre-canned aggregations, or not run aggregations at all.

While you absolutely shouldn't expose {es} directly to the internet, you also
shouldn't expose {es} directly to users. Instead, use an intermediary
application to make requests on behalf of users. This implementation allows you 
to track user behaviors, such as can submit requests, and to which specific
nodes in the cluster. For example, you can implement an application that accepts
a search term from a user and funnels it through a
<<query-dsl-simple-query-string-query,`simple_query_string` query>>. 

[discrete]
[[security-create-appropriate-users]]
=== Implement role based access control
<<defining-roles,Define roles>> for your users and
<<security-privileges,assign appropriate privileges>> to ensure that users have
access only to the resources that they need. This process determines whether the 
user behind an incoming request is allowed to execute that request.

Commit message:

Add information about elasticsearch user

x-pack/docs/en/security/es-security-principles.asciidoc, after:

[[es-security-principles]]
== {es} security principles
Protecting your {es} cluster and the data it contains is of utmost importance.
Implementing a defense in depth strategy provides multiple layers of security
to help safeguard your system. The following principles provide a foundation
for running {es} in a secure manner that helps to mitigate attacks on your
system at multiple levels.

[discrete]
[[security-run-with-security]]
=== Run {es} with security enabled
Never run an {es} cluster without security enabled. This principle cannot be
overstated. Running {es} without security leaves your cluster exposed to anyone
who can send network traffic to {es}, permitting these individuals to download,
modify, or delete any data in your cluster.
<<configuring-stack-security,Start the {stack} with security enabled>> or
<<manually-configure-security,manually configure security>> to prevent
unauthorized access to your clusters and ensure that internode communication
is secure. 

[discrete]
[[security-not-root-user]]
=== Don't run {es} as `root`
Never run {es} as the `root` user. Running as the `root` user sheds a layer of
security in your defense in depth strategy and permits a user to do *anything*
on your server. {es} will refuse to start if it detects that it is running as
`root`, but it's worth double (or triple) checking the user that {es} runs as.

Instead, create a dedicated, unprivileged user to run {es} instead of running
as the `root` user. By default, the `rpm`, `tar.gz`, `docker`, and Windows
distributions come prepackaged with an `elasticsearch` user.

[discrete]
[[security-protect-cluster-traffic]]
=== Protect {es} from public internet traffic
Even with security enabled, never expose {es} to public internet traffic.
Using an application to sanitize requests to {es} still poses risks, such as
a malicious user writing <<search,`_search`>> requests that could overwhelm an
{es} cluster and bring it down. Keep {es} as isolated as possible, preferably
behind a firewall and a VPN. Any internet-facing applications should run 
pre-canned aggregations, or not run aggregations at all.

While you absolutely shouldn't expose {es} directly to the internet, you also
shouldn't expose {es} directly to users. Instead, use an intermediary
application to make requests on behalf of users. This implementation allows you 
to track user behaviors, such as can submit requests, and to which specific
nodes in the cluster. For example, you can implement an application that accepts
a search term from a user and funnels it through a
<<query-dsl-simple-query-string-query,`simple_query_string` query>>. 

[discrete]
[[security-create-appropriate-users]]
=== Implement role based access control
<<defining-roles,Define roles>> for your users and
<<security-privileges,assign appropriate privileges>> to ensure that users have
access only to the resources that they need. This process determines whether the 
user behind an incoming request is allowed to execute that request.
