x-pack/docs/en/security/index.asciidoc, before:

[[secure-cluster]]
= Secure the Elastic Stack

[partintro]
--

The Elastic Stack is comprised of many moving parts. There are the {es}
nodes that form the cluster, plus {ls} instances, {kib} instances, {beats}
agents, and clients all communicating with the cluster.

<<configuring-stack-security,Configure security for the Elastic Stack>> to
secure {es} clusters and any clients that communicate with your clusters. You
can password protect access to your data as well as enable more advanced
security by configuring Transport Layer Security (TLS). This additional layer
provides confidentiality and integrity protection to your communications with
the Elastic Stack. You can also implement additional security measures, such as
role-based access control, IP filtering, and auditing.

Enabling security protects {es} clusters by:

* <<preventing-unauthorized-access, Preventing unauthorized access>>
  with password protection, role-based access control, and IP filtering.
* <<preserving-data-integrity, Preserving the integrity of your data>>
  with SSL/TLS encryption.
* <<maintaining-audit-trail, Maintaining an audit trail>>
  so you know who's doing what to your cluster and the data it stores.

TIP: If you plan to run {es} in a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)
140-2 enabled JVM, see <<fips-140-compliance>>.

[discrete]
[[preventing-unauthorized-access]]
== Preventing unauthorized access

To prevent unauthorized access to your {es} cluster, you need a way to
_authenticate_ users in order to validate that a user is who they claim to be. For
example, making sure that only the person named _Kelsey Andorra_ can sign
in as the user `kandorra`. The {es-security-features} provide a standalone
authentication mechanism that enables you to quickly password-protect your
cluster.

If you're already using LDAP, Active Directory, or PKI to manage users in your
organization, the {security-features} integrate with those systems to perform
user authentication.

In many cases, authenticating users isn't enough. You also need a way to
control what data users can access and what tasks they can perform. By enabling
the {es-security-features}, you can _authorize_ users by assigning access
privileges to roles and assigning those roles to users. Using this role-based
access control mechanism (RBAC), you can limit the user `kandorra` to only
perform read operations on the `events` index restrict access to all other
indices.

The {security-features} also enable you to restrict the nodes and clients that
can connect to the cluster based on <<ip-filtering,IP filters>>. You can
block and allow specific IP addresses, subnets, or DNS domains to
control network-level access to a cluster.

See <<setting-up-authentication,User authentication>> and
<<authorization,User authorization>>.

[discrete]
[[preserving-data-integrity]]
== Preserving data integrity and confidentiality

A critical part of security is keeping confidential data secured.
{es} has built-in protections against accidental data loss and
corruption. However, there's nothing to stop deliberate tampering or data
interception. The {stack-security-features} use TLS to preserve the _integrity_
of your data against tampering, while also providing _confidentiality_ by
encrypting communications to, from, and within the cluster. For even	greater
protection, you can increase the <<ciphers,encryption strength>>.

See <<configuring-stack-security,Configure security for the Elastic Stack>>.

[discrete]
[[maintaining-audit-trail]]
== Maintaining an audit trail

Keeping a system secure takes vigilance. By using {stack-security-features} to
maintain an audit trail, you can easily see who is accessing your cluster and
what they're doing. You can configure the audit level, which accounts for the
type of events that are logged. These events include failed authentication
attempts, user access denied, node connection denied, and more. By analyzing
access patterns and failed attempts to access your cluster, you can gain
insights into attempted attacks and data breaches. Keeping an auditable log of
the activity in your cluster can also help diagnose operational issues.

See <<enable-audit-logging,Enable audit logging>>.

--

include::configuring-stack-security.asciidoc[]

include::security-manual-configuration.asciidoc[]

include::securing-communications/update-tls-certificates.asciidoc[]

include::authentication/overview.asciidoc[]

include::authorization/overview.asciidoc[]

include::auditing/index.asciidoc[]

include::using-ip-filtering.asciidoc[]

include::ccs-clients-integrations/index.asciidoc[]

include::operator-privileges/index.asciidoc[]

include::troubleshooting.asciidoc[]

include::limitations.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add ES security principles

x-pack/docs/en/security/index.asciidoc, after:

[[secure-cluster]]
= Secure the {stack}

[partintro]
--

The {stack} is comprised of many moving parts. There are the {es}
nodes that form the cluster, plus {ls} instances, {kib} instances, {beats}
agents, and clients all communicating with the cluster. To keep your cluster
safe, adhere to the <<es-security-principles,{es} security principles>>.

<<configuring-stack-security,Start the {stack} with security enabled>> or
<<manually-configure-security,manually configure security>> to
secure {es} clusters and any clients that communicate with your clusters. You
can password protect access to your data as well as enable more advanced
security by configuring Transport Layer Security (TLS). This additional layer
provides confidentiality and integrity protection to your communications with
the {stack}. You can also implement additional security measures, such as
role-based access control, IP filtering, and auditing.

Enabling security protects {es} clusters by:

* <<preventing-unauthorized-access, Preventing unauthorized access>>
  with password protection, role-based access control, and IP filtering.
* <<preserving-data-integrity, Preserving the integrity of your data>>
  with SSL/TLS encryption.
* <<maintaining-audit-trail, Maintaining an audit trail>>
  so you know who's doing what to your cluster and the data it stores.

TIP: If you plan to run {es} in a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)
140-2 enabled JVM, see <<fips-140-compliance>>.

[discrete]
[[preventing-unauthorized-access]]
== Preventing unauthorized access

To prevent unauthorized access to your {es} cluster, you need a way to
_authenticate_ users in order to validate that a user is who they claim to be. For
example, making sure that only the person named _Kelsey Andorra_ can sign
in as the user `kandorra`. The {es-security-features} provide a standalone
authentication mechanism that enables you to quickly password-protect your
cluster.

If you're already using LDAP, Active Directory, or PKI to manage users in your
organization, the {security-features} integrate with those systems to perform
user authentication.

In many cases, authenticating users isn't enough. You also need a way to
control what data users can access and what tasks they can perform. By enabling
the {es-security-features}, you can _authorize_ users by assigning access
privileges to roles and assigning those roles to users. Using this role-based
access control mechanism (RBAC), you can limit the user `kandorra` to only
perform read operations on the `events` index restrict access to all other
indices.

The {security-features} also enable you to restrict the nodes and clients that
can connect to the cluster based on <<ip-filtering,IP filters>>. You can
block and allow specific IP addresses, subnets, or DNS domains to
control network-level access to a cluster.

See <<setting-up-authentication,User authentication>> and
<<authorization,User authorization>>.

[discrete]
[[preserving-data-integrity]]
== Preserving data integrity and confidentiality

A critical part of security is keeping confidential data secured.
{es} has built-in protections against accidental data loss and
corruption. However, there's nothing to stop deliberate tampering or data
interception. The {stack-security-features} use TLS to preserve the _integrity_
of your data against tampering, while also providing _confidentiality_ by
encrypting communications to, from, and within the cluster. For even	greater
protection, you can increase the <<ciphers,encryption strength>>.

See <<configuring-stack-security,Configure security for the {stack}>>.

[discrete]
[[maintaining-audit-trail]]
== Maintaining an audit trail

Keeping a system secure takes vigilance. By using {stack-security-features} to
maintain an audit trail, you can easily see who is accessing your cluster and
what they're doing. You can configure the audit level, which accounts for the
type of events that are logged. These events include failed authentication
attempts, user access denied, node connection denied, and more. By analyzing
access patterns and failed attempts to access your cluster, you can gain
insights into attempted attacks and data breaches. Keeping an auditable log of
the activity in your cluster can also help diagnose operational issues.

See <<enable-audit-logging,Enable audit logging>>.

--

include::es-security-principles.asciidoc[]

include::configuring-stack-security.asciidoc[]

include::security-manual-configuration.asciidoc[]

include::securing-communications/update-tls-certificates.asciidoc[]

include::authentication/overview.asciidoc[]

include::authorization/overview.asciidoc[]

include::auditing/index.asciidoc[]

include::using-ip-filtering.asciidoc[]

include::ccs-clients-integrations/index.asciidoc[]

include::operator-privileges/index.asciidoc[]

include::troubleshooting.asciidoc[]

include::limitations.asciidoc[]
