x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/file-realm.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[file-realm]]
=== File-based user authentication

You can manage and authenticate users with the built-in `file` realm.
With the `file` realm, users are defined in local files on each node in the cluster.

IMPORTANT:  As the administrator of the cluster, it is your responsibility to
ensure the same users are defined on every node in the cluster. The {stack}
{security-features} do not deliver any mechanism to guarantee this.

The `file` realm is primarily supported to serve as a fallback/recovery realm. It
is mostly useful in situations where all users locked themselves out of the system
(no one remembers their username/password). In this type of scenarios, the `file`
realm is your only way out - you can define a new `admin` user in the `file` realm
and use it to log in and reset the credentials of all other users.

IMPORTANT: When you configure realms in `elasticsearch.yml`, only the realms you
specify are used for authentication. To use the `file` realm as a fallback, you
must include it in the realm chain.

To define users, the {security-features} provide the
<<users-command,users>> command-line tool. This tool enables you to add
and remove users, assign user roles, and manage user passwords.

[[file-realm-configuration]]
==== Configuring a file realm

include::configuring-file-realm.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Adjust file realm docs
The existing wording in the file realm docs proved confusing
for users as it seemed to indicate that it should _only_ be
used as a fallback/recovery realm and that it is not a
first class realm.

This change attempts to clarify this and point out that recovery
is _a_ use case for the file realm but not the only intended one.

x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/file-realm.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[file-realm]]
=== File-based user authentication

You can manage and authenticate users with the built-in `file` realm.
With the `file` realm, users are defined in local files on each node in the cluster.

IMPORTANT:  As the administrator of the cluster, it is your responsibility to
ensure the same users are defined on every node in the cluster. The {stack}
{security-features} do not deliver any mechanism to guarantee this.

The `file` realm is very useful as a fallback/recovery realm, for instance in cases where
the cluster is unresponsive or the security index is unavailable, or when you forget the
password for your administrative users.
In this type of scenarios, the `file` realm is a convenient way out - you can
define a new `admin` user in the `file` realm and use it to log in and reset the
credentials of all other users.

IMPORTANT: When you configure realms in `elasticsearch.yml`, only the realms you
specify are used for authentication. To use the `file` realm you must explicitly
include it in the realm chain.

To define users, the {security-features} provide the
<<users-command,users>> command-line tool. This tool enables you to add
and remove users, assign user roles, and manage user passwords.

[[file-realm-configuration]]
==== Configuring a file realm

include::configuring-file-realm.asciidoc[]
