docs/reference/troubleshooting/common-issues/high-jvm-memory-pressure.asciidoc, before:

[[high-jvm-memory-pressure]]
=== High JVM memory pressure

High JVM memory usage can degrade cluster performance and trigger
<<circuit-breaker-errors,circuit breaker errors>>. To prevent this, we recommend
taking steps to reduce memory pressure if a node's JVM memory usage consistently
exceeds 85%.

[discrete]
[[diagnose-high-jvm-memory-pressure]]
==== Diagnose high JVM memory pressure

**Check JVM memory pressure**

include::{es-repo-dir}/tab-widgets/jvm-memory-pressure-widget.asciidoc[]

**Check garbage collection logs**

As memory usage increases, garbage collection becomes more frequent and takes
longer. You can track the frequency and length of garbage collection events in
<<logging,`elasticsearch.log`>>. For example, the following event states {es}
spent more than 50% (21 seconds) of the last 40 seconds performing garbage
collection.

[source,log]
----
[timestamp_short_interval_from_last][INFO ][o.e.m.j.JvmGcMonitorService] [node_id] [gc][number] overhead, spent [21s] collecting in the last [40s]
----

[discrete]
[[reduce-jvm-memory-pressure]]
==== Reduce JVM memory pressure

**Reduce your shard count**

Every shard uses memory. In most cases, a small set of large shards uses fewer
resources than many small shards. For tips on reducing your shard count, see
<<size-your-shards>>.

[[avoid-expensive-searches]]
**Avoid expensive searches**

Expensive searches can use large amounts of memory. To better track expensive
searches on your cluster, enable <<index-modules-slowlog,slow logs>>.

Expensive searches may have a large <<paginate-search-results,`size` argument>>,
use aggregations with a large number of buckets, or include
<<query-dsl-allow-expensive-queries,expensive queries>>. To prevent expensive
searches, consider the following setting changes:

* Lower the `size` limit using the
<<index-max-result-window,`index.max_result_window`>> index setting.

* Decrease the maximum number of allowed aggregation buckets using the
<<search-settings-max-buckets,search.max_buckets>> cluster setting.

* Disable expensive queries using the
<<query-dsl-allow-expensive-queries,`search.allow_expensive_queries`>> cluster
setting.

[source,console]
----
PUT _settings
{
  "index.max_result_window": 5000
}

PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "search.max_buckets": 20000,
    "search.allow_expensive_queries": false
  }
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index\n/]

**Prevent mapping explosions**

Defining too many fields or nesting fields too deeply can lead to
<<mapping-limit-settings,mapping explosions>> that use large amounts of memory.
To prevent mapping explosions, use the <<mapping-settings-limit,mapping limit
settings>> to limit the number of field mappings.

**Spread out bulk requests**

While more efficient than individual requests, large <<docs-bulk,bulk indexing>>
or <<search-multi-search,multi-search>> requests can still create high JVM
memory pressure. If possible, submit smaller requests and allow more time
between them.

**Upgrade node memory**

Heavy indexing and search loads can cause high JVM memory pressure. To better
handle heavy workloads, upgrade your nodes to increase their memory capacity.

Commit message:

Suggest capturing a heap dump to diagnose high heap (#96526) (#96527)
The `high-jvm-memory-pressure.html` troubleshooting docs give some
suggestions, but vitally they omit the advice to capture a heap dump
which is what we really need users to do if they want to understand
their high heap usage. This commit adds a note to the docs to that
effect.

docs/reference/troubleshooting/common-issues/high-jvm-memory-pressure.asciidoc, after:

[[high-jvm-memory-pressure]]
=== High JVM memory pressure

High JVM memory usage can degrade cluster performance and trigger
<<circuit-breaker-errors,circuit breaker errors>>. To prevent this, we recommend
taking steps to reduce memory pressure if a node's JVM memory usage consistently
exceeds 85%.

[discrete]
[[diagnose-high-jvm-memory-pressure]]
==== Diagnose high JVM memory pressure

**Check JVM memory pressure**

include::{es-repo-dir}/tab-widgets/jvm-memory-pressure-widget.asciidoc[]

**Check garbage collection logs**

As memory usage increases, garbage collection becomes more frequent and takes
longer. You can track the frequency and length of garbage collection events in
<<logging,`elasticsearch.log`>>. For example, the following event states {es}
spent more than 50% (21 seconds) of the last 40 seconds performing garbage
collection.

[source,log]
----
[timestamp_short_interval_from_last][INFO ][o.e.m.j.JvmGcMonitorService] [node_id] [gc][number] overhead, spent [21s] collecting in the last [40s]
----

**Capture a JVM heap dump**

To determine the exact reason for the high JVM memory pressure, capture a heap
dump of the JVM while its memory usage is high.

[discrete]
[[reduce-jvm-memory-pressure]]
==== Reduce JVM memory pressure

This section contains some common suggestions for reducing JVM memory pressure.

**Reduce your shard count**

Every shard uses memory. In most cases, a small set of large shards uses fewer
resources than many small shards. For tips on reducing your shard count, see
<<size-your-shards>>.

[[avoid-expensive-searches]]
**Avoid expensive searches**

Expensive searches can use large amounts of memory. To better track expensive
searches on your cluster, enable <<index-modules-slowlog,slow logs>>.

Expensive searches may have a large <<paginate-search-results,`size` argument>>,
use aggregations with a large number of buckets, or include
<<query-dsl-allow-expensive-queries,expensive queries>>. To prevent expensive
searches, consider the following setting changes:

* Lower the `size` limit using the
<<index-max-result-window,`index.max_result_window`>> index setting.

* Decrease the maximum number of allowed aggregation buckets using the
<<search-settings-max-buckets,search.max_buckets>> cluster setting.

* Disable expensive queries using the
<<query-dsl-allow-expensive-queries,`search.allow_expensive_queries`>> cluster
setting.

[source,console]
----
PUT _settings
{
  "index.max_result_window": 5000
}

PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "search.max_buckets": 20000,
    "search.allow_expensive_queries": false
  }
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index\n/]

**Prevent mapping explosions**

Defining too many fields or nesting fields too deeply can lead to
<<mapping-limit-settings,mapping explosions>> that use large amounts of memory.
To prevent mapping explosions, use the <<mapping-settings-limit,mapping limit
settings>> to limit the number of field mappings.

**Spread out bulk requests**

While more efficient than individual requests, large <<docs-bulk,bulk indexing>>
or <<search-multi-search,multi-search>> requests can still create high JVM
memory pressure. If possible, submit smaller requests and allow more time
between them.

**Upgrade node memory**

Heavy indexing and search loads can cause high JVM memory pressure. To better
handle heavy workloads, upgrade your nodes to increase their memory capacity.
