docs/reference/query-dsl/geo-queries.asciidoc, before:

[[geo-queries]]
== Geo queries

Elasticsearch supports two types of geo data:
<<geo-point,`geo_point`>> fields which support lat/lon pairs, and
<<geo-shape,`geo_shape`>> fields, which support points,
lines, circles, polygons, multi-polygons, etc.

The queries in this group are:

<<query-dsl-geo-bounding-box-query,`geo_bounding_box`>> query::
Finds documents with geo-points that fall into the specified rectangle.

<<query-dsl-geo-distance-query,`geo_distance`>> query::
Finds documents with geo-points within the specified distance of a central point.

<<query-dsl-geo-polygon-query,`geo_polygon`>> query::
Find documents with geo-points within the specified polygon.

<<query-dsl-geo-shape-query,`geo_shape`>> query::
Finds documents with:
* `geo-shapes` which either intersect, are contained by, or do not intersect
with the specified geo-shape
* `geo-points` which intersect the specified
geo-shape

include::geo-bounding-box-query.asciidoc[]

include::geo-distance-query.asciidoc[]

include::geo-polygon-query.asciidoc[]

include::geo-shape-query.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Correct spelling for geo terms (#76028)
Changes:
* Use "geopoint" when not referring to the literal field type
* Use "geoshape" when not referring to the literal field type or query type
* Use "GeoJSON" consistently

docs/reference/query-dsl/geo-queries.asciidoc, after:

[[geo-queries]]
== Geo queries

Elasticsearch supports two types of geo data:
<<geo-point,`geo_point`>> fields which support lat/lon pairs, and
<<geo-shape,`geo_shape`>> fields, which support points,
lines, circles, polygons, multi-polygons, etc.

The queries in this group are:

<<query-dsl-geo-bounding-box-query,`geo_bounding_box`>> query::
Finds documents with geopoints that fall into the specified rectangle.

<<query-dsl-geo-distance-query,`geo_distance`>> query::
Finds documents with geopoints within the specified distance of a central point.

<<query-dsl-geo-polygon-query,`geo_polygon`>> query::
Find documents with geopoints within the specified polygon.

<<query-dsl-geo-shape-query,`geo_shape`>> query::
Finds documents with:
* Geoshapes which either intersect, are contained by, or do not intersect
with the specified geoshape
* Geopoints which intersect the specified geoshape

include::geo-bounding-box-query.asciidoc[]

include::geo-distance-query.asciidoc[]

include::geo-polygon-query.asciidoc[]

include::geo-shape-query.asciidoc[]
