docs/reference/query-dsl/geo-shape-query.asciidoc, before:

[[query-dsl-geo-shape-query]]
=== Geo-shape query
++++
<titleabbrev>Geo-shape</titleabbrev>
++++

Filter documents indexed using the `geo_shape` type.

Requires the <<geo-shape,`geo_shape` Mapping>>.

The `geo_shape` query uses the same grid square representation as the
`geo_shape` mapping to find documents that have a shape that intersects
with the query shape. It will also use the same Prefix Tree configuration
as defined for the field mapping.

The query supports two ways of defining the query shape, either by
providing a whole shape definition, or by referencing the name of a shape
pre-indexed in another index. Both formats are defined below with
examples.

==== Inline Shape Definition

Similar to the `geo_shape` type, the `geo_shape` query uses
http://www.geojson.org[GeoJSON] to represent shapes.

Given the following index:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /example
{
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "location": {
                "type": "geo_shape"
            }
        }
    }
}

POST /example/_doc?refresh
{
    "name": "Wind & Wetter, Berlin, Germany",
    "location": {
        "type": "point",
        "coordinates": [13.400544, 52.530286]
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTSETUP

The following query will find the point using the Elasticsearch's
`envelope` GeoJSON extension:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /example/_search
{
    "query":{
        "bool": {
            "must": {
                "match_all": {}
            },
            "filter": {
                "geo_shape": {
                    "location": {
                        "shape": {
                            "type": "envelope",
                            "coordinates" : [[13.0, 53.0], [14.0, 52.0]]
                        },
                        "relation": "within"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Pre-Indexed Shape

The Query also supports using a shape which has already been indexed in
another index. This is particularly useful for when
you have a pre-defined list of shapes which are useful to your
application and you want to reference this using a logical name (for
example 'New Zealand') rather than having to provide their coordinates
each time. In this situation it is only necessary to provide:

* `id` - The ID of the document that containing the pre-indexed shape.
* `index` - Name of the index where the pre-indexed shape is. Defaults
to 'shapes'.
* `path` - The field specified as path containing the pre-indexed shape.
Defaults to 'shape'.
* `routing` - The routing of the shape document if required.

The following is an example of using the Filter with a pre-indexed
shape:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /shapes
{
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "location": {
                "type": "geo_shape"
            }
        }
    }
}

PUT /shapes/_doc/deu
{
    "location": {
        "type": "envelope",
        "coordinates" : [[13.0, 53.0], [14.0, 52.0]]
    }
}

GET /example/_search
{
    "query": {
        "bool": {
            "filter": {
                "geo_shape": {
                    "location": {
                        "indexed_shape": {
                            "index": "shapes",
                            "id": "deu",
                            "path": "location"
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Spatial Relations

The <<spatial-strategy, geo_shape strategy>> mapping parameter determines
which spatial relation operators may be used at search time.

The following is a complete list of spatial relation operators available:

* `INTERSECTS` - (default) Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
intersects the query geometry.
* `DISJOINT` - Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
has nothing in common with the query geometry.
* `WITHIN` - Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
is within the query geometry.
* `CONTAINS` - Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
contains the query geometry.

[float]
==== Ignore Unmapped

When set to `true` the `ignore_unmapped` option will ignore an unmapped field
and will not match any documents for this query. This can be useful when
querying multiple indexes which might have different mappings. When set to
`false` (the default value) the query will throw an exception if the field
is not mapped.

==== Notes
Geo-shape queries on geo-shapes implemented with <<prefix-trees, `PrefixTrees`>> will not be executed if
<<query-dsl-allow-expensive-queries, `search.allow_expensive_queries`>> is set to false.

Commit message:

include geo_point in geo-shape-query docs

docs/reference/query-dsl/geo-shape-query.asciidoc, after:

[[query-dsl-geo-shape-query]]
=== Geo-shape query
++++
<titleabbrev>Geo-shape</titleabbrev>
++++

Filter documents indexed using the `geo_shape` or `geo_point` type.

Requires the <<geo-shape,`geo_shape` Mapping>> or the <<geo-point,`geo_point` Mapping>>.

The `geo_shape` query uses the same grid square representation as the
`geo_shape` mapping to find documents that have a shape that intersects
with the query shape. It will also use the same Prefix Tree configuration
as defined for the field mapping.

The query supports two ways of defining the query shape, either by
providing a whole shape definition, or by referencing the name of a shape
pre-indexed in another index. Both formats are defined below with
examples.

==== Inline Shape Definition

Similar to the `geo_shape` type, the `geo_shape` query uses
http://www.geojson.org[GeoJSON] to represent shapes.

Given the following index:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /example
{
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "location": {
                "type": "geo_shape"
            }
        }
    }
}

POST /example/_doc?refresh
{
    "name": "Wind & Wetter, Berlin, Germany",
    "location": {
        "type": "point",
        "coordinates": [13.400544, 52.530286]
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTSETUP

The following query will find the point using the Elasticsearch's
`envelope` GeoJSON extension:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /example/_search
{
    "query":{
        "bool": {
            "must": {
                "match_all": {}
            },
            "filter": {
                "geo_shape": {
                    "location": {
                        "shape": {
                            "type": "envelope",
                            "coordinates" : [[13.0, 53.0], [14.0, 52.0]]
                        },
                        "relation": "within"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Pre-Indexed Shape

The Query also supports using a shape which has already been indexed in
another index. This is particularly useful for when
you have a pre-defined list of shapes which are useful to your
application and you want to reference this using a logical name (for
example 'New Zealand') rather than having to provide their coordinates
each time. In this situation it is only necessary to provide:

* `id` - The ID of the document that containing the pre-indexed shape.
* `index` - Name of the index where the pre-indexed shape is. Defaults
to 'shapes'.
* `path` - The field specified as path containing the pre-indexed shape.
Defaults to 'shape'.
* `routing` - The routing of the shape document if required.

The following is an example of using the Filter with a pre-indexed
shape:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /shapes
{
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "location": {
                "type": "geo_shape"
            }
        }
    }
}

PUT /shapes/_doc/deu
{
    "location": {
        "type": "envelope",
        "coordinates" : [[13.0, 53.0], [14.0, 52.0]]
    }
}

GET /example/_search
{
    "query": {
        "bool": {
            "filter": {
                "geo_shape": {
                    "location": {
                        "indexed_shape": {
                            "index": "shapes",
                            "id": "deu",
                            "path": "location"
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Spatial Relations

The <<spatial-strategy, geo_shape strategy>> mapping parameter determines
which spatial relation operators may be used at search time.

The following is a complete list of spatial relation operators available when searching a field of type `geo_shape`:

* `INTERSECTS` - (default) Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
intersects the query geometry.
* `DISJOINT` - Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
has nothing in common with the query geometry.
* `WITHIN` - Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
is within the query geometry.
* `CONTAINS` - Return all documents whose `geo_shape` field
contains the query geometry.

When searching a field of type `geo_point` there is a single supported spatial relation operator:

* `INTERSECTS` - (default) Return all documents whose `geo_point` field
intersects the query geometry.

[float]
==== Ignore Unmapped

When set to `true` the `ignore_unmapped` option will ignore an unmapped field
and will not match any documents for this query. This can be useful when
querying multiple indexes which might have different mappings. When set to
`false` (the default value) the query will throw an exception if the field
is not mapped.

==== Notes
Geo-shape queries on geo-shapes implemented with <<prefix-trees, `PrefixTrees`>> will not be executed if
<<query-dsl-allow-expensive-queries, `search.allow_expensive_queries`>> is set to false.
