docs/reference/query-dsl/knn-query.asciidoc, before:

[[query-dsl-knn-query]]
=== Knn query
++++
<titleabbrev>Knn</titleabbrev>
++++

Finds the _k_ nearest vectors to a query vector, as measured by a similarity
metric. _knn_ query finds nearest vectors through approximate search on indexed
dense_vectors. The preferred way to do approximate kNN search is through the
<<knn-search,top level knn section>> of a search request. _knn_ query is reserved for
expert cases, where there is a need to combine this query with other queries.

[[knn-query-ex-request]]
==== Example request

[source,console]
----
PUT my-image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
       "image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 3,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm"
      },
      "file-type": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

. Index your data.
+
[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "image-vector": [1, 5, -20], "file-type": "jpg", "title": "mountain lake" }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "image-vector": [42, 8, -15], "file-type": "png", "title": "frozen lake"}
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "image-vector": [15, 11, 23], "file-type": "jpg", "title": "mountain lake lodge" }
----
//TEST[continued]

. Run the search using the `knn` query, asking for the top 3 nearest vectors.
+
[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_search
{
  "size" : 3,
  "query" : {
    "knn": {
      "field": "image-vector",
      "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
      "num_candidates": 10
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]

NOTE: `knn` query doesn't have a separate `k` parameter. `k` is defined by
`size` parameter of a search request similar to other queries. `knn` query
collects `num_candidates` results from each shard, then merges them to get
the top `size` results.


[[knn-query-top-level-parameters]]
==== Top-level parameters for `knn`

`field`::
+
--
(Required, string) The name of the vector field to search against. Must be a
<<index-vectors-knn-search, `dense_vector` field with indexing enabled>>.
--

`query_vector`::
+
--
(Required, array of floats) Query vector. Must have the same number of dimensions
as the vector field you are searching against.
--

`num_candidates`::
+
--
(Optional, integer) The number of nearest neighbor candidates to consider per shard.
Cannot exceed 10,000. {es} collects `num_candidates` results from each shard, then
merges them to find the top results. Increasing `num_candidates` tends to improve the
accuracy of the final results. Defaults to `Math.min(1.5 * size, 10_000)`.
--

`filter`::
+
--
(Optional, query object) Query to filter the documents that can match.
The kNN search will return the top documents that also match this filter.
The value can be a single query or a list of queries. If `filter` is not provided,
all documents are allowed to match.

The filter is a pre-filter, meaning that it is applied **during** the approximate
kNN search to ensure that `num_candidates` matching documents are returned.
--

`similarity`::
+
--
(Optional, float) The minimum similarity required for a document to be considered
a match. The similarity value calculated relates to the raw
<<dense-vector-similarity, `similarity`>> used. Not the document score. The matched
documents are then scored according to <<dense-vector-similarity, `similarity`>>
and the provided `boost` is applied.
--

`boost`::
+
--
(Optional, float) Floating point number used to multiply the
scores of matched documents. This value cannot be negative. Defaults to `1.0`.
--

`_name`::
+
--
(Optional, string) Name field to identify the query
--

[[knn-query-filtering]]
==== Pre-filters and post-filters in knn query

There are two ways to filter documents that match a kNN query:

. **pre-filtering** – filter is applied during the approximate kNN search
to ensure that `k` matching documents are returned.
. **post-filtering** – filter is applied after the approximate kNN search
completes, which results in fewer than k results, even when there are enough
matching documents.

Pre-filtering is supported through the `filter` parameter of the `knn` query.
Also filters from <<filter-alias,aliases>> are applied as pre-filters.

All other filters found in the Query DSL tree are applied as post-filters.
For example, `knn` query finds the top 3 documents with the nearest vectors
(num_candidates=3), which are combined with  `term` filter, that is
post-filtered. The final set of documents will contain only a single document
that passes the post-filter.


[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_search
{
  "size" : 10,
  "query" : {
    "bool" : {
      "must" : {
        "knn": {
          "field": "image-vector",
          "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
          "num_candidates": 3
        }
      },
      "filter" : {
        "term" : { "file-type" : "png" }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]

[[knn-query-in-hybrid-search]]
==== Hybrid search with knn query
Knn query can be used as a part of hybrid search, where knn query is combined
with other lexical queries. For example, the query below finds documents with
`title` matching `mountain lake`, and combines them with the top 10 documents
that have the closest image vectors to the `query_vector`. The combined documents
are then scored and the top 3 top scored documents are returned.

+
[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_search
{
  "size" : 3,
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "should": [
        {
          "match": {
            "title": {
              "query": "mountain lake",
              "boost": 1
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "knn": {
            "field": "image-vector",
            "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
            "num_candidates": 10,
            "boost": 2
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]


[[knn-query-with-nested-query]]
==== Knn query inside a nested query

`knn` query can be used inside a nested query. The behaviour here is similar
to <<nested-knn-search, top level nested kNN search>>:

* kNN search over nested dense_vectors diversifies the top results over
the top-level document
* `filter`  over the top-level document metadata is supported and acts as a
post-filter
* `filter` over `nested` field metadata is not supported

A sample query can look like below:

[source,js]
----
{
  "query" : {
    "nested" : {
      "path" : "paragraph",
        "query" : {
          "knn": {
            "query_vector": [
                0.45,
                45
            ],
            "field": "paragraph.vector",
            "num_candidates": 2
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// NOTCONSOLE

[[knn-query-aggregations]]
==== Knn query with aggregations
`knn` query calculates aggregations on `num_candidates` from each shard.
Thus, the final results from aggregations contain
`num_candidates * number_of_shards` documents. This is different from
the <<knn-search,top level knn section>> where aggregations are
calculated on the global top k nearest documents.

Commit message:

adding parsing for hex-encoded byte vectors

docs/reference/query-dsl/knn-query.asciidoc, after:

[[query-dsl-knn-query]]
=== Knn query
++++
<titleabbrev>Knn</titleabbrev>
++++

Finds the _k_ nearest vectors to a query vector, as measured by a similarity
metric. _knn_ query finds nearest vectors through approximate search on indexed
dense_vectors. The preferred way to do approximate kNN search is through the
<<knn-search,top level knn section>> of a search request. _knn_ query is reserved for
expert cases, where there is a need to combine this query with other queries.

[[knn-query-ex-request]]
==== Example request

[source,console]
----
PUT my-image-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
       "image-vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector",
        "dims": 3,
        "index": true,
        "similarity": "l2_norm"
      },
      "file-type": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

. Index your data.
+
[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_bulk?refresh=true
{ "index": { "_id": "1" } }
{ "image-vector": [1, 5, -20], "file-type": "jpg", "title": "mountain lake" }
{ "index": { "_id": "2" } }
{ "image-vector": [42, 8, -15], "file-type": "png", "title": "frozen lake"}
{ "index": { "_id": "3" } }
{ "image-vector": [15, 11, 23], "file-type": "jpg", "title": "mountain lake lodge" }
----
//TEST[continued]

. Run the search using the `knn` query, asking for the top 3 nearest vectors.
+
[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_search
{
  "size" : 3,
  "query" : {
    "knn": {
      "field": "image-vector",
      "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
      "num_candidates": 10
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]

NOTE: `knn` query doesn't have a separate `k` parameter. `k` is defined by
`size` parameter of a search request similar to other queries. `knn` query
collects `num_candidates` results from each shard, then merges them to get
the top `size` results.


[[knn-query-top-level-parameters]]
==== Top-level parameters for `knn`

`field`::
+
--
(Required, string) The name of the vector field to search against. Must be a
<<index-vectors-knn-search, `dense_vector` field with indexing enabled>>.
--

`query_vector`::
+
--
(Required, array of floats or string) Query vector. Must have the same number of dimensions
as the vector field you are searching against. Must be either an array of floats or a hex-encoded byte vector.
--

`num_candidates`::
+
--
(Optional, integer) The number of nearest neighbor candidates to consider per shard.
Cannot exceed 10,000. {es} collects `num_candidates` results from each shard, then
merges them to find the top results. Increasing `num_candidates` tends to improve the
accuracy of the final results. Defaults to `Math.min(1.5 * size, 10_000)`.
--

`filter`::
+
--
(Optional, query object) Query to filter the documents that can match.
The kNN search will return the top documents that also match this filter.
The value can be a single query or a list of queries. If `filter` is not provided,
all documents are allowed to match.

The filter is a pre-filter, meaning that it is applied **during** the approximate
kNN search to ensure that `num_candidates` matching documents are returned.
--

`similarity`::
+
--
(Optional, float) The minimum similarity required for a document to be considered
a match. The similarity value calculated relates to the raw
<<dense-vector-similarity, `similarity`>> used. Not the document score. The matched
documents are then scored according to <<dense-vector-similarity, `similarity`>>
and the provided `boost` is applied.
--

`boost`::
+
--
(Optional, float) Floating point number used to multiply the
scores of matched documents. This value cannot be negative. Defaults to `1.0`.
--

`_name`::
+
--
(Optional, string) Name field to identify the query
--

[[knn-query-filtering]]
==== Pre-filters and post-filters in knn query

There are two ways to filter documents that match a kNN query:

. **pre-filtering** – filter is applied during the approximate kNN search
to ensure that `k` matching documents are returned.
. **post-filtering** – filter is applied after the approximate kNN search
completes, which results in fewer than k results, even when there are enough
matching documents.

Pre-filtering is supported through the `filter` parameter of the `knn` query.
Also filters from <<filter-alias,aliases>> are applied as pre-filters.

All other filters found in the Query DSL tree are applied as post-filters.
For example, `knn` query finds the top 3 documents with the nearest vectors
(num_candidates=3), which are combined with  `term` filter, that is
post-filtered. The final set of documents will contain only a single document
that passes the post-filter.


[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_search
{
  "size" : 10,
  "query" : {
    "bool" : {
      "must" : {
        "knn": {
          "field": "image-vector",
          "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
          "num_candidates": 3
        }
      },
      "filter" : {
        "term" : { "file-type" : "png" }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]

[[knn-query-in-hybrid-search]]
==== Hybrid search with knn query
Knn query can be used as a part of hybrid search, where knn query is combined
with other lexical queries. For example, the query below finds documents with
`title` matching `mountain lake`, and combines them with the top 10 documents
that have the closest image vectors to the `query_vector`. The combined documents
are then scored and the top 3 top scored documents are returned.

+
[source,console]
----
POST my-image-index/_search
{
  "size" : 3,
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "should": [
        {
          "match": {
            "title": {
              "query": "mountain lake",
              "boost": 1
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "knn": {
            "field": "image-vector",
            "query_vector": [-5, 9, -12],
            "num_candidates": 10,
            "boost": 2
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
----
//TEST[continued]


[[knn-query-with-nested-query]]
==== Knn query inside a nested query

`knn` query can be used inside a nested query. The behaviour here is similar
to <<nested-knn-search, top level nested kNN search>>:

* kNN search over nested dense_vectors diversifies the top results over
the top-level document
* `filter`  over the top-level document metadata is supported and acts as a
post-filter
* `filter` over `nested` field metadata is not supported

A sample query can look like below:

[source,js]
----
{
  "query" : {
    "nested" : {
      "path" : "paragraph",
        "query" : {
          "knn": {
            "query_vector": [
                0.45,
                45
            ],
            "field": "paragraph.vector",
            "num_candidates": 2
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// NOTCONSOLE

[[knn-query-aggregations]]
==== Knn query with aggregations
`knn` query calculates aggregations on `num_candidates` from each shard.
Thus, the final results from aggregations contain
`num_candidates * number_of_shards` documents. This is different from
the <<knn-search,top level knn section>> where aggregations are
calculated on the global top k nearest documents.
