docs/reference/query-dsl/range-query.asciidoc, before:

[[query-dsl-range-query]]
=== Range query
++++
<titleabbrev>Range</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns documents that contain terms within a provided range.

[[range-query-ex-request]]
==== Example request

The following search returns documents where the `age` field contains a term
between `10` and `20`.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "age" : {
                "gte" : 10,
                "lte" : 20,
                "boost" : 2.0
            }
        }
    }
}
----

[[range-query-top-level-params]]
==== Top-level parameters for `range`

`<field>`::
+
--
(Required, object) Field you wish to search.
--

[[range-query-field-params]]
==== Parameters for `<field>`

`gt`::
(Optional) Greater than.

`gte`::
(Optional) Greater than or equal to.

`lt`::
(Optional) Less than.

`lte`::
(Optional) Less than or equal to.

`format`::
+
--
(Optional, string) Date format used to convert `date` values in the query.

By default, {es} uses the <<mapping-date-format,date `format`>> provided in the
`<field>`'s mapping. This value overrides that mapping format.

For valid syntax, see <<mapping-date-format,`format`>>.

[WARNING]
====
If a `format` and `date` value are incomplete, {es} replaces any missing year,
month, or date component with the start of
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time[Unix time], which is January 1st, 1970.

For example, if the `format` value is `dd`, {es} converts a `gte` value of `10`
to `1970-01-10T00:00:00.000Z`.
====

--

[[querying-range-fields]]
`relation`::
+
--
(Optional, string) Indicates how the range query matches values for `range`
fields. Valid values are:

`INTERSECTS` (Default)::
Matches documents with a range field value that intersects the query's range.

`CONTAINS`::
Matches documents with a range field value that entirely contains the query's range.

`WITHIN`::
Matches documents with a range field value entirely within the query's range.
--

`time_zone`::
+
--
(Optional, string)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_UTC_time_offsets[Coordinated Universal
Time (UTC) offset] or
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones[IANA time zone]
used to convert `date` values in the query to UTC.

Valid values are ISO 8601 UTC offsets, such as `+01:00` or -`08:00`, and IANA
time zone IDs, such as `America/Los_Angeles`.

For an example query using the `time_zone` parameter, see
<<range-query-time-zone,Time zone in `range` queries>>.

[NOTE]
====
The `time_zone` parameter does **not** affect the <<date-math,date math>> value
of `now`. `now` is always the current system time in UTC.

However, the `time_zone` parameter does convert dates calculated using `now` and
<<date-math,date math rounding>>. For example, the `time_zone` parameter will
convert a value of `now/d`.
====
--

`boost`::
+
--
(Optional, float) Floating point number used to decrease or increase the
<<relevance-scores,relevance scores>> of a query. Defaults to `1.0`.

You can use the `boost` parameter to adjust relevance scores for searches
containing two or more queries.

Boost values are relative to the default value of `1.0`. A boost value between
`0` and `1.0` decreases the relevance score. A value greater than `1.0`
increases the relevance score.
--

[[range-query-notes]]
==== Notes

[[ranges-on-dates]]
===== Using the `range` query with `date` fields

When the `<field>` parameter is a <<date,`date`>> field datatype, you can use
<<date-math,date math>> with the following parameters:

* `gt`
* `gte`
* `lt`
* `lte`

For example, the following search returns documents where the `timestamp` field
contains a date between today and yesterday.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "timestamp" : {
                "gte" : "now-1d/d",
                "lt" :  "now/d"
            }
        }
    }
}
----


[[range-query-date-math-rounding]]
====== Date math and rounding
{es} rounds <<date-math,date math>> values in parameters as follows:

`gt`::
+
--
Rounds up to the lastest millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds up to `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, excluding
the entire month.
--

`gte`::
+
--
Rounds down to the first millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds down to `2014-11-01`, including
the entire month.
--

`lt`::
+
--
Rounds down to the first millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds down to `2014-11-01`, excluding
the entire month.
--

`lte`::
+
--
Rounds up to the lastest millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds up to `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, including
the entire month.
--

[[range-query-time-zone]]
===== Example query using `time_zone` parameter

You can use the `time_zone` parameter to convert `date` values to UTC using a
UTC offset. For example:

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "timestamp": {
        "time_zone": "+01:00",        <1>
        "gte": "2020-01-01T00:00:00", <2>
        "lte": "now"                  <3>
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

<1> Indicates that `date` values use a UTC offset of `+01:00`.
<2> With a UTC offset of `+01:00`, {es} converts this date to
`2019-12-31T23:00:00 UTC`.
<3> The `time_zone` parameter does not affect the `now` value.

Commit message:

Add a cluster setting to disallow expensive queries (#51385)
Add a new cluster setting `search.allow_expensive_queries` which by
default is `true`. If set to `false`, certain queries that have
usually slow performance cannot be executed and an error message
is returned.

- Queries that need to do linear scans to identify matches:
  - Script queries
- Queries that have a high up-front cost:
  - Fuzzy queries
  - Regexp queries
  - Prefix queries (without index_prefixes enabled
  - Wildcard queries
  - Range queries on text and keyword fields
- Joining queries
  - HasParent queries
  - HasChild queries
  - ParentId queries
  - Nested queries
- Queries on deprecated 6.x geo shapes (using PrefixTree implementation)
- Queries that may have a high per-document cost:
  - Script score queries
  - Percolate queries

Closes: #29050
(cherry picked from commit a8b39ed842c7770bd9275958c9f747502fd9a3ea)

docs/reference/query-dsl/range-query.asciidoc, after:

[[query-dsl-range-query]]
=== Range query
++++
<titleabbrev>Range</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns documents that contain terms within a provided range.

[[range-query-ex-request]]
==== Example request

The following search returns documents where the `age` field contains a term
between `10` and `20`.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "age" : {
                "gte" : 10,
                "lte" : 20,
                "boost" : 2.0
            }
        }
    }
}
----

[[range-query-top-level-params]]
==== Top-level parameters for `range`

`<field>`::
+
--
(Required, object) Field you wish to search.
--

[[range-query-field-params]]
==== Parameters for `<field>`

`gt`::
(Optional) Greater than.

`gte`::
(Optional) Greater than or equal to.

`lt`::
(Optional) Less than.

`lte`::
(Optional) Less than or equal to.

`format`::
+
--
(Optional, string) Date format used to convert `date` values in the query.

By default, {es} uses the <<mapping-date-format,date `format`>> provided in the
`<field>`'s mapping. This value overrides that mapping format.

For valid syntax, see <<mapping-date-format,`format`>>.

[WARNING]
====
If a `format` and `date` value are incomplete, {es} replaces any missing year,
month, or date component with the start of
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time[Unix time], which is January 1st, 1970.

For example, if the `format` value is `dd`, {es} converts a `gte` value of `10`
to `1970-01-10T00:00:00.000Z`.
====

--

[[querying-range-fields]]
`relation`::
+
--
(Optional, string) Indicates how the range query matches values for `range`
fields. Valid values are:

`INTERSECTS` (Default)::
Matches documents with a range field value that intersects the query's range.

`CONTAINS`::
Matches documents with a range field value that entirely contains the query's range.

`WITHIN`::
Matches documents with a range field value entirely within the query's range.
--

`time_zone`::
+
--
(Optional, string)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_UTC_time_offsets[Coordinated Universal
Time (UTC) offset] or
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones[IANA time zone]
used to convert `date` values in the query to UTC.

Valid values are ISO 8601 UTC offsets, such as `+01:00` or -`08:00`, and IANA
time zone IDs, such as `America/Los_Angeles`.

For an example query using the `time_zone` parameter, see
<<range-query-time-zone,Time zone in `range` queries>>.

[NOTE]
====
The `time_zone` parameter does **not** affect the <<date-math,date math>> value
of `now`. `now` is always the current system time in UTC.

However, the `time_zone` parameter does convert dates calculated using `now` and
<<date-math,date math rounding>>. For example, the `time_zone` parameter will
convert a value of `now/d`.
====
--

`boost`::
+
--
(Optional, float) Floating point number used to decrease or increase the
<<relevance-scores,relevance scores>> of a query. Defaults to `1.0`.

You can use the `boost` parameter to adjust relevance scores for searches
containing two or more queries.

Boost values are relative to the default value of `1.0`. A boost value between
`0` and `1.0` decreases the relevance score. A value greater than `1.0`
increases the relevance score.
--

[[range-query-notes]]
==== Notes

[[ranges-on-text-and-keyword]]
===== Using the `range` query with `text` and `keyword` fields
Range queries on <<text, `text`>> or <<keyword, `keyword`>> files will not be executed if
<<query-dsl-allow-expensive-queries, `search.allow_expensive_queries`>> is set to false.

[[ranges-on-dates]]
===== Using the `range` query with `date` fields

When the `<field>` parameter is a <<date,`date`>> field datatype, you can use
<<date-math,date math>> with the following parameters:

* `gt`
* `gte`
* `lt`
* `lte`

For example, the following search returns documents where the `timestamp` field
contains a date between today and yesterday.

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "timestamp" : {
                "gte" : "now-1d/d",
                "lt" :  "now/d"
            }
        }
    }
}
----


[[range-query-date-math-rounding]]
====== Date math and rounding
{es} rounds <<date-math,date math>> values in parameters as follows:

`gt`::
+
--
Rounds up to the lastest millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds up to `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, excluding
the entire month.
--

`gte`::
+
--
Rounds down to the first millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds down to `2014-11-01`, including
the entire month.
--

`lt`::
+
--
Rounds down to the first millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds down to `2014-11-01`, excluding
the entire month.
--

`lte`::
+
--
Rounds up to the lastest millisecond.

For example, `2014-11-18||/M` rounds up to `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, including
the entire month.
--

[[range-query-time-zone]]
===== Example query using `time_zone` parameter

You can use the `time_zone` parameter to convert `date` values to UTC using a
UTC offset. For example:

[source,console]
----
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "timestamp": {
        "time_zone": "+01:00",        <1>
        "gte": "2020-01-01T00:00:00", <2>
        "lte": "now"                  <3>
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

<1> Indicates that `date` values use a UTC offset of `+01:00`.
<2> With a UTC offset of `+01:00`, {es} converts this date to
`2019-12-31T23:00:00 UTC`.
<3> The `time_zone` parameter does not affect the `now` value.
