docs/reference/query-dsl/text-expansion-query.asciidoc, before:

[[query-dsl-text-expansion-query]]
== Text expansion query
++++
<titleabbrev>Text expansion</titleabbrev>
++++

The text expansion query uses a {nlp} model to convert the query text into a 
list of token-weight pairs which are then used in a query against a 
<<rank-features,rank features field>>.

[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query-ex-request]]
=== Example request


[source,console]
----
GET _search
{
   "query":{
      "text_expansion":{
         "<rank_features_field>":{
            "model_id":"the model to produce the token weights",
            "model_text":"the query string"
         }
      }
   }
}
----
// TEST[skip: TBD]

[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query-params]]
=== Top level parameters for `text_expansion`

`<rank_features_field>`:::
(Required, object)
The name of the field that contains the token-weight pairs the NLP model created 
based on the input text.

[discrete]
[[text-expansion-rank-feature-field-params]]
=== Top level parameters for `<rank_features_field>`

`model_id`::::
(Required, string)
The ID of the model to use to convert the query text into token-weight pairs. It 
must be the same model ID that was used to create the tokens from the input 
text.

`model_text`::::
(Required, string)
The query text you want to use for search. 


[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query-notes]]
=== Notes

The following is an example of the `text_expansion` query that references the 
ELSER model to perform semantic search. For a more detailed description of how 
to perform semantic search by using ELSER and the `text_expansion` query, refer 
to <<semantic-search-elser,this tutorial>>.

[source,console]
----
GET my-index/_search
{
   "query":{
      "text_expansion":{
         "ml.tokens":{
            "model_id":".elser_model_1",
            "model_text":"How is the weather in Jamaica?"
         }
      }
   }
}
----
// TEST[skip: TBD]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adds search performance optimization section to text expansion docs.

docs/reference/query-dsl/text-expansion-query.asciidoc, after:

[[query-dsl-text-expansion-query]]
== Text expansion query
++++
<titleabbrev>Text expansion</titleabbrev>
++++

The text expansion query uses a {nlp} model to convert the query text into a 
list of token-weight pairs which are then used in a query against a 
<<rank-features,rank features field>>.

[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query-ex-request]]
=== Example request


[source,console]
----
GET _search
{
   "query":{
      "text_expansion":{
         "<rank_features_field>":{
            "model_id":"the model to produce the token weights",
            "model_text":"the query string"
         }
      }
   }
}
----
// TEST[skip: TBD]

[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query-params]]
=== Top level parameters for `text_expansion`

`<rank_features_field>`:::
(Required, object)
The name of the field that contains the token-weight pairs the NLP model created 
based on the input text.

[discrete]
[[text-expansion-rank-feature-field-params]]
=== Top level parameters for `<rank_features_field>`

`model_id`::::
(Required, string)
The ID of the model to use to convert the query text into token-weight pairs. It 
must be the same model ID that was used to create the tokens from the input 
text.

`model_text`::::
(Required, string)
The query text you want to use for search. 


[discrete]
[[text-expansion-query-example]]
=== Example

The following is an example of the `text_expansion` query that references the 
ELSER model to perform semantic search. For a more detailed description of how 
to perform semantic search by using ELSER and the `text_expansion` query, refer 
to <<semantic-search-elser,this tutorial>>.

[source,console]
----
GET my-index/_search
{
   "query":{
      "text_expansion":{
         "ml.tokens":{
            "model_id":".elser_model_1",
            "model_text":"How is the weather in Jamaica?"
         }
      }
   }
}
----
// TEST[skip: TBD]

[discrete]
[[optimizing-text-expansion]]
=== Optimizing the search performance of the text_expansion query

[Max WAND](https://www.elastic.co/blog/faster-retrieval-of-top-hits-in-elasticsearch-with-block-max-wand) 
optimization technique used by {es} to skip over documents that don't score 
competitively against the current best matching documents. However, the weighted 
terms generated by the ELSER model don't work well with the Max WAND 
optimization. Consequently, enabling Max WAND can actually increase query 
latency for `text_expansion`. For datasets of a significant size, disabling Max 
WAND leads to lower query latencies.

The behavior of Max WAND can be controlled using the 
<<track-total-hits, track_total_hits>> query parameter. Setting track_total_hits 
to true forces {es} to consider all documents, resulting in lower query 
latencies for the text_expansion query. However, other {es} queries run slower 
when Max WAND is disabled.

If you are combining the `text_expansion` query with standard text queries in a 
compound search, it is recommended to measure the query performance before 
deciding which setting to use.

NOTE: The `track_total_hits` option applies to all queries in the search request 
and may be optimal for some queries but not for others. Take into account of the 
characteristics of all your queries to determine the most suitable 
configuration.
