docs/reference/search/aggregations/bucket/terms-aggregation.asciidoc, before:

[[search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation]]
=== Terms Aggregation

A multi-bucket value source based aggregation where buckets are dynamically built - one per unique value.

Example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : { "field" : "gender" }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    ...

    "aggregations" : {
        "genders" : {
            "buckets" : [
                {
                    "key" : "male",
                    "doc_count" : 10
                },
                {
                    "key" : "female",
                    "doc_count" : 10
                },
            ]
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

By default, the `terms` aggregation will return the buckets for the top ten terms ordered by the `doc_count`. One can
change this default behaviour by setting the `size` parameter.

==== Size & Shard Size

The `size` parameter can be set to define how many term buckets should be returned out of the overall terms list. By
default, the node coordinating the search process will request each shard to provide its own top `size` term buckets
and once all shards respond, it will reduce the results to the final list that will then be returned to the client.
This means that if the number of unique terms is greater than `size`, the returned list is slightly off and not accurate
(it could be that the term counts are slightly off and it could even be that a term that should have been in the top
size buckets was not returned). If set to `0`, the `size` will be set to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`.


The higher the requested `size` is, the more accurate the results will be, but also, the more expensive it will be to
compute the final results (both due to bigger priority queues that are managed on a shard level and due to bigger data
transfers between the nodes and the client). 

The `shard_size` parameter can be  used to minimize the extra work that comes with bigger requested `size`. When defined,
it will determine how many terms the coordinating node will request from each shard. Once all the shards responded, the
coordinating node will then reduce them to a final result which will be based on the `size` parameter - this way,
one can increase the accuracy of the returned terms and avoid the overhead of streaming a big list of buckets back to
the client. If set to `0`, the `shard_size` will be set to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`.


NOTE:   `shard_size` cannot be smaller than `size` (as it doesn't make much sense). When it is, elasticsearch will
        override it and reset it to be equal to `size`.

added[1.1.0] It is possible to not limit the number of terms that are returned by setting `size` to `0`. Don't use this
on high-cardinality fields as this will kill both your CPU since terms need to be return sorted, and your network.

==== Order

The order of the buckets can be customized by setting the `order` parameter. By default, the buckets are ordered by
their `doc_count` descending. It is also possible to change this behaviour as follows:

Ordering the buckets by their `doc_count` in an ascending manner:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "_count" : "asc" }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Ordering the buckets alphabetically by their terms in an ascending manner:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "_term" : "asc" }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------


Ordering the buckets by single value metrics sub-aggregation (identified by the aggregation name):

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "avg_height" : "desc" }
            },
            "aggs" : {
                "avg_height" : { "avg" : { "field" : "height" } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Ordering the buckets by multi value metrics sub-aggregation (identified by the aggregation name):

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "height_stats.avg" : "desc" }
            },
            "aggs" : {
                "height_stats" : { "stats" : { "field" : "height" } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

It is also possible to order the buckets based on a "deeper" aggregation in the hierarchy. This is supported as long
as the aggregations path are of a single-bucket type, where the last aggregation in the path may either by a single-bucket
one or a metrics one. If it's a single-bucket type, the order will be defined by the number of docs in the bucket (i.e. `doc_count`),
in case it's a metrics one, the same rules as above apply (where the path must indicate the metric name to sort by in case of
a multi-value metrics aggregation, and in case of a single-value metrics aggregation the sort will be applied on that value).

The path must be defined in the following form:

--------------------------------------------------
AGG_SEPARATOR       :=  '>'
METRIC_SEPARATOR    :=  '.'
AGG_NAME            :=  <the name of the aggregation>
METRIC              :=  <the name of the metric (in case of multi-value metrics aggregation)>
PATH                :=  <AGG_NAME>[<AGG_SEPARATOR><AGG_NAME>]*[<METRIC_SEPARATOR><METRIC>]
--------------------------------------------------

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "countries" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "address.country",
                "order" : { "females>height_stats.avg" : "desc" }
            },
            "aggs" : {
                "females" : {
                    "filter" : { "term" : { "gender" : { "female" }}},
                    "aggs" : {
                        "height_stats" : { "stats" : { "field" : "height" }}
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

The above will sort the countries buckets based on the average height among the female population.

==== Minimum document count 

It is possible to only return terms that match more than a configured number of hits using the `min_doc_count` option:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "tag",
                "min_doc_count": 10
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

The above aggregation would only return tags which have been found in 10 hits or more. Default value is `1`.


Terms are collected and ordered on a shard level and merged with the terms collected from other shards in a second step. However, the shard does not have the information about the global document count available. The decision if a term is added to a candidate list depends only on the order computed on the shard using local shard frequencies. The `min_doc_count` criterion is only applied after merging local terms statistics of all shards. In a way the decision to add the term as a candidate is made without being very _certain_ about if the term will actually reach the required `min_doc_count`. This might cause many (globally) high frequent terms to be missing in the final result if low frequent terms populated the candidate lists. To avoid this, the `shard_size` parameter can be increased to allow more candidate terms on the shards. However, this increases memory consumption and network traffic.

added[1.2.0] `shard_min_doc_count` parameter

The parameter `shard_min_doc_count` regulates the _certainty_ a shard has if the term should actually be added to the candidate list or not with respect to the `min_doc_count`. Terms will only be considered if their local shard frequency within the set is higher than the `shard_min_doc_count`. If your dictionary contains many low frequent terms and you are not interested in those (for example misspellings), then you can set the `shard_min_doc_count` parameter to filter out candidate terms on a shard level that will with a resonable certainty not reach the required `min_doc_count` even after merging the local counts. `shard_min_doc_count` is set to `0` per default and has no effect unless you explicitly set it.



NOTE:    Setting `min_doc_count`=`0` will also return buckets for terms that didn't match any hit. However, some of
         the returned terms which have a document count of zero might only belong to deleted documents, so there is
         no warranty that a `match_all` query would find a positive document count for those terms.

WARNING: When NOT sorting on `doc_count` descending, high values of `min_doc_count` may return a number of buckets
         which is less than `size` because not enough data was gathered from the shards. Missing buckets can be
         back by increasing `shard_size`.
         Setting `shard_min_doc_count` too high will cause terms to be filtered out on a shard level. This value should be set much lower than `min_doc_count/#shards`.

==== Script

Generating the terms using a script:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "script" : "doc['gender'].value"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Value Script

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "script" : "'Gender: ' +_value"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------


==== Filtering Values

It is possible to filter the values for which buckets will be created. This can be done using the `include` and
`exclude` parameters which are based on regular expressions.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "tags",
                "include" : ".*sport.*",
                "exclude" : "water_.*"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

In the above example, buckets will be created for all the tags that has the word `sport` in them, except those starting
with `water_` (so the tag `water_sports` will no be aggregated). The `include` regular expression will determine what
values are "allowed" to be aggregated, while the `exclude` determines the values that should not be aggregated. When
both are defined, the `exclude` has precedence, meaning, the `include` is evaluated first and only then the `exclude`.

The regular expression are based on the Java(TM) http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html[Pattern],
and as such, they it is also possible to pass in flags that will determine how the compiled regular expression will work:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "tags",
                 "include" : {
                     "pattern" : ".*sport.*",
                     "flags" : "CANON_EQ|CASE_INSENSITIVE" <1>
                 },
                 "exclude" : {
                     "pattern" : "water_.*",
                     "flags" : "CANON_EQ|CASE_INSENSITIVE"
                 }
             }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> the flags are concatenated using the `|` character as a separator

The possible flags that can be used are:
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#CANON_EQ[`CANON_EQ`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#CASE_INSENSITIVE[`CASE_INSENSITIVE`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#COMMENTS[`COMMENTS`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#DOTALL[`DOTALL`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#LITERAL[`LITERAL`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#MULTILINE[`MULTILINE`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#UNICODE_CASE[`UNICODE_CASE`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#UNICODE_CHARACTER_CLASS[`UNICODE_CHARACTER_CLASS`] and
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#UNIX_LINES[`UNIX_LINES`]

==== Collect mode

coming[1.2.0] Deferring calculation of child aggregations

For fields with many unique terms and a small number of required results it can be more efficient to delay the calculation
of child aggregations until the top parent-level aggs have been pruned. Ordinarily, all branches of the aggregation tree
are expanded in one depth-first pass and only then any pruning occurs. In some rare scenarios this can be very wasteful and can hit memory constraints.
An example problem scenario is querying a movie database for the 10 most popular actors and their 5 most common co-stars: 

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "actors" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "actors",
                 "size" : 10
             },
            "aggs" : {
                "costars" : {
                     "terms" : {
                         "field" : "actors",
                         "size" : 5
                     }
                 }
            }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Even though the number of movies may be comparatively small and we want only 50 result buckets there is a combinatorial explosion of buckets 
during calculation - a single movie will produce n² buckets where n is the number of actors. The sane option would be to first determine 
the 10 most popular actors and only then examine the top co-stars for these 10 actors. This alternative strategy is what we call the `breadth_first` collection
mode as opposed to the default `depth_first` mode:
 
[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "actors" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "actors",
                 "size" : 10,
                 "collect_mode" : "breadth_first"
             },
            "aggs" : {
                "costars" : {
                     "terms" : {
                         "field" : "actors",
                         "size" : 5
                     }
                 }
            }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------


When using `breadth_first` mode the set of documents that fall into the uppermost buckets are
cached for subsequent replay so there is a memory overhead in doing this which is linear with the number of matching documents. 
In most requests the volume of buckets generated is smaller than the number of documents that fall into them so the default `depth_first`
collection mode is normally the best bet but occasionally the `breadth_first` strategy can be significantly more efficient. Currently 
elasticsearch will always use the `depth_first` collect_mode unless explicitly instructed to use `breadth_first` as in the above example

==== Execution hint

added[1.2.0] The `global_ordinals` execution mode

There are three mechanisms by which terms aggregations can be executed: either by using field values directly in order to aggregate
data per-bucket (`map`), by using ordinals of the field values instead of the values themselves (`ordinals`) or by using global
ordinals of the field (`global_ordinals`). The latter is faster, especially for fields with many unique
values. However it can be slower if only a few documents match, when for example a terms aggregator is nested in another
aggregator, this applies for both `ordinals` and `global_ordinals` execution modes. Elasticsearch tries to have sensible
defaults when it comes to the execution mode that should be used, but  in case you know that one execution mode may
perform better than the other one, you have the ability to "hint" it to Elasticsearch:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "tags",
                 "execution_hint": "map" <1>
             }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> the possible values are `map`, `ordinals` and `global_ordinals`

Please note that Elasticsearch will ignore this execution hint if it is not applicable.

Commit message:

Rebased on master and now triggers errors if scorer-dependent aggs e.g. top_hits are nested underneath a deferring agg. Added related test and documentation.

docs/reference/search/aggregations/bucket/terms-aggregation.asciidoc, after:

[[search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation]]
=== Terms Aggregation

A multi-bucket value source based aggregation where buckets are dynamically built - one per unique value.

Example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : { "field" : "gender" }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    ...

    "aggregations" : {
        "genders" : {
            "buckets" : [
                {
                    "key" : "male",
                    "doc_count" : 10
                },
                {
                    "key" : "female",
                    "doc_count" : 10
                },
            ]
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

By default, the `terms` aggregation will return the buckets for the top ten terms ordered by the `doc_count`. One can
change this default behaviour by setting the `size` parameter.

==== Size & Shard Size

The `size` parameter can be set to define how many term buckets should be returned out of the overall terms list. By
default, the node coordinating the search process will request each shard to provide its own top `size` term buckets
and once all shards respond, it will reduce the results to the final list that will then be returned to the client.
This means that if the number of unique terms is greater than `size`, the returned list is slightly off and not accurate
(it could be that the term counts are slightly off and it could even be that a term that should have been in the top
size buckets was not returned). If set to `0`, the `size` will be set to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`.


The higher the requested `size` is, the more accurate the results will be, but also, the more expensive it will be to
compute the final results (both due to bigger priority queues that are managed on a shard level and due to bigger data
transfers between the nodes and the client). 

The `shard_size` parameter can be  used to minimize the extra work that comes with bigger requested `size`. When defined,
it will determine how many terms the coordinating node will request from each shard. Once all the shards responded, the
coordinating node will then reduce them to a final result which will be based on the `size` parameter - this way,
one can increase the accuracy of the returned terms and avoid the overhead of streaming a big list of buckets back to
the client. If set to `0`, the `shard_size` will be set to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`.


NOTE:   `shard_size` cannot be smaller than `size` (as it doesn't make much sense). When it is, elasticsearch will
        override it and reset it to be equal to `size`.

added[1.1.0] It is possible to not limit the number of terms that are returned by setting `size` to `0`. Don't use this
on high-cardinality fields as this will kill both your CPU since terms need to be return sorted, and your network.

==== Order

The order of the buckets can be customized by setting the `order` parameter. By default, the buckets are ordered by
their `doc_count` descending. It is also possible to change this behaviour as follows:

Ordering the buckets by their `doc_count` in an ascending manner:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "_count" : "asc" }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Ordering the buckets alphabetically by their terms in an ascending manner:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "_term" : "asc" }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------


Ordering the buckets by single value metrics sub-aggregation (identified by the aggregation name):

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "avg_height" : "desc" }
            },
            "aggs" : {
                "avg_height" : { "avg" : { "field" : "height" } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Ordering the buckets by multi value metrics sub-aggregation (identified by the aggregation name):

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "order" : { "height_stats.avg" : "desc" }
            },
            "aggs" : {
                "height_stats" : { "stats" : { "field" : "height" } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

It is also possible to order the buckets based on a "deeper" aggregation in the hierarchy. This is supported as long
as the aggregations path are of a single-bucket type, where the last aggregation in the path may either by a single-bucket
one or a metrics one. If it's a single-bucket type, the order will be defined by the number of docs in the bucket (i.e. `doc_count`),
in case it's a metrics one, the same rules as above apply (where the path must indicate the metric name to sort by in case of
a multi-value metrics aggregation, and in case of a single-value metrics aggregation the sort will be applied on that value).

The path must be defined in the following form:

--------------------------------------------------
AGG_SEPARATOR       :=  '>'
METRIC_SEPARATOR    :=  '.'
AGG_NAME            :=  <the name of the aggregation>
METRIC              :=  <the name of the metric (in case of multi-value metrics aggregation)>
PATH                :=  <AGG_NAME>[<AGG_SEPARATOR><AGG_NAME>]*[<METRIC_SEPARATOR><METRIC>]
--------------------------------------------------

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "countries" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "address.country",
                "order" : { "females>height_stats.avg" : "desc" }
            },
            "aggs" : {
                "females" : {
                    "filter" : { "term" : { "gender" : { "female" }}},
                    "aggs" : {
                        "height_stats" : { "stats" : { "field" : "height" }}
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

The above will sort the countries buckets based on the average height among the female population.

==== Minimum document count 

It is possible to only return terms that match more than a configured number of hits using the `min_doc_count` option:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "tag",
                "min_doc_count": 10
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

The above aggregation would only return tags which have been found in 10 hits or more. Default value is `1`.


Terms are collected and ordered on a shard level and merged with the terms collected from other shards in a second step. However, the shard does not have the information about the global document count available. The decision if a term is added to a candidate list depends only on the order computed on the shard using local shard frequencies. The `min_doc_count` criterion is only applied after merging local terms statistics of all shards. In a way the decision to add the term as a candidate is made without being very _certain_ about if the term will actually reach the required `min_doc_count`. This might cause many (globally) high frequent terms to be missing in the final result if low frequent terms populated the candidate lists. To avoid this, the `shard_size` parameter can be increased to allow more candidate terms on the shards. However, this increases memory consumption and network traffic.

added[1.2.0] `shard_min_doc_count` parameter

The parameter `shard_min_doc_count` regulates the _certainty_ a shard has if the term should actually be added to the candidate list or not with respect to the `min_doc_count`. Terms will only be considered if their local shard frequency within the set is higher than the `shard_min_doc_count`. If your dictionary contains many low frequent terms and you are not interested in those (for example misspellings), then you can set the `shard_min_doc_count` parameter to filter out candidate terms on a shard level that will with a resonable certainty not reach the required `min_doc_count` even after merging the local counts. `shard_min_doc_count` is set to `0` per default and has no effect unless you explicitly set it.



NOTE:    Setting `min_doc_count`=`0` will also return buckets for terms that didn't match any hit. However, some of
         the returned terms which have a document count of zero might only belong to deleted documents, so there is
         no warranty that a `match_all` query would find a positive document count for those terms.

WARNING: When NOT sorting on `doc_count` descending, high values of `min_doc_count` may return a number of buckets
         which is less than `size` because not enough data was gathered from the shards. Missing buckets can be
         back by increasing `shard_size`.
         Setting `shard_min_doc_count` too high will cause terms to be filtered out on a shard level. This value should be set much lower than `min_doc_count/#shards`.

==== Script

Generating the terms using a script:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "script" : "doc['gender'].value"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Value Script

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "genders" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "gender",
                "script" : "'Gender: ' +_value"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------


==== Filtering Values

It is possible to filter the values for which buckets will be created. This can be done using the `include` and
`exclude` parameters which are based on regular expressions.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "tags",
                "include" : ".*sport.*",
                "exclude" : "water_.*"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

In the above example, buckets will be created for all the tags that has the word `sport` in them, except those starting
with `water_` (so the tag `water_sports` will no be aggregated). The `include` regular expression will determine what
values are "allowed" to be aggregated, while the `exclude` determines the values that should not be aggregated. When
both are defined, the `exclude` has precedence, meaning, the `include` is evaluated first and only then the `exclude`.

The regular expression are based on the Java(TM) http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html[Pattern],
and as such, they it is also possible to pass in flags that will determine how the compiled regular expression will work:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "tags",
                 "include" : {
                     "pattern" : ".*sport.*",
                     "flags" : "CANON_EQ|CASE_INSENSITIVE" <1>
                 },
                 "exclude" : {
                     "pattern" : "water_.*",
                     "flags" : "CANON_EQ|CASE_INSENSITIVE"
                 }
             }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> the flags are concatenated using the `|` character as a separator

The possible flags that can be used are:
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#CANON_EQ[`CANON_EQ`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#CASE_INSENSITIVE[`CASE_INSENSITIVE`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#COMMENTS[`COMMENTS`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#DOTALL[`DOTALL`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#LITERAL[`LITERAL`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#MULTILINE[`MULTILINE`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#UNICODE_CASE[`UNICODE_CASE`],
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#UNICODE_CHARACTER_CLASS[`UNICODE_CHARACTER_CLASS`] and
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#UNIX_LINES[`UNIX_LINES`]

==== Collect mode

coming[1.2.0] Deferring calculation of child aggregations

For fields with many unique terms and a small number of required results it can be more efficient to delay the calculation
of child aggregations until the top parent-level aggs have been pruned. Ordinarily, all branches of the aggregation tree
are expanded in one depth-first pass and only then any pruning occurs. In some rare scenarios this can be very wasteful and can hit memory constraints.
An example problem scenario is querying a movie database for the 10 most popular actors and their 5 most common co-stars: 

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "actors" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "actors",
                 "size" : 10
             },
            "aggs" : {
                "costars" : {
                     "terms" : {
                         "field" : "actors",
                         "size" : 5
                     }
                 }
            }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Even though the number of movies may be comparatively small and we want only 50 result buckets there is a combinatorial explosion of buckets 
during calculation - a single movie will produce n² buckets where n is the number of actors. The sane option would be to first determine 
the 10 most popular actors and only then examine the top co-stars for these 10 actors. This alternative strategy is what we call the `breadth_first` collection
mode as opposed to the default `depth_first` mode:
 
[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "actors" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "actors",
                 "size" : 10,
                 "collect_mode" : "breadth_first"
             },
            "aggs" : {
                "costars" : {
                     "terms" : {
                         "field" : "actors",
                         "size" : 5
                     }
                 }
            }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------


When using `breadth_first` mode the set of documents that fall into the uppermost buckets are
cached for subsequent replay so there is a memory overhead in doing this which is linear with the number of matching documents. 
In most requests the volume of buckets generated is smaller than the number of documents that fall into them so the default `depth_first`
collection mode is normally the best bet but occasionally the `breadth_first` strategy can be significantly more efficient. Currently 
elasticsearch will always use the `depth_first` collect_mode unless explicitly instructed to use `breadth_first` as in the above example.
Note that the `order` parameter can still be used to refer to data from a child aggregation when using the `breadth_first` setting - the parent
aggregation understands that this child aggregation will need to be called first before any of the other child aggregations.

WARNING: It is not possible to nest aggregations such as `top_hits` which require access to match score information under an aggregation that uses
the `breadth_first` collection mode. This is because this would require a RAM buffer to hold the float score value for every document and
this would typically be too costly in terms of RAM. 


==== Execution hint

added[1.2.0] The `global_ordinals` execution mode

There are three mechanisms by which terms aggregations can be executed: either by using field values directly in order to aggregate
data per-bucket (`map`), by using ordinals of the field values instead of the values themselves (`ordinals`) or by using global
ordinals of the field (`global_ordinals`). The latter is faster, especially for fields with many unique
values. However it can be slower if only a few documents match, when for example a terms aggregator is nested in another
aggregator, this applies for both `ordinals` and `global_ordinals` execution modes. Elasticsearch tries to have sensible
defaults when it comes to the execution mode that should be used, but  in case you know that one execution mode may
perform better than the other one, you have the ability to "hint" it to Elasticsearch:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "aggs" : {
        "tags" : {
             "terms" : {
                 "field" : "tags",
                 "execution_hint": "map" <1>
             }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> the possible values are `map`, `ordinals` and `global_ordinals`

Please note that Elasticsearch will ignore this execution hint if it is not applicable.
