docs/reference/sql/limitations.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[sql-limitations]]
== SQL Limitations

[float]
[[large-parsing-trees]]
=== Large queries may throw `ParsingExpection`

Extremely large queries can consume too much memory during the parsing phase, in which case the {es-sql} engine will
abort parsing and throw an error. In such cases, consider reducing the query to a smaller size by potentially
simplifying it or splitting it into smaller queries.

[float]
[[sys-columns-describe-table-nested-fields]]
=== Nested fields in `SYS COLUMNS` and `DESCRIBE TABLE`

{es} has a special type of relationship fields called `nested` fields. In {es-sql} they can be used by referencing their inner
sub-fields. Even though `SYS COLUMNS` in non-driver mode (in the CLI and in REST calls) and `DESCRIBE TABLE` will still display
them as having the type `NESTED`, they cannot be used in a query. One can only reference its sub-fields in the form:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
[nested_field_name].[sub_field_name]
--------------------------------------------------

For example:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
SELECT dep.dep_name.keyword FROM test_emp GROUP BY languages;
--------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== Multi-nested fields

{es-sql} doesn't support multi-nested documents, so a query cannot reference more than one nested field in an index.
This applies to multi-level nested fields, but also multiple nested fields defined on the same level. For example, for this index:

[source, sql]
----------------------------------------------------
       column         |     type      |    mapping
----------------------+---------------+-------------
nested_A              |STRUCT         |NESTED
nested_A.nested_X     |STRUCT         |NESTED
nested_A.nested_X.text|VARCHAR        |KEYWORD
nested_A.text         |VARCHAR        |KEYWORD
nested_B              |STRUCT         |NESTED
nested_B.text         |VARCHAR        |KEYWORD
----------------------------------------------------

`nested_A` and `nested_B` cannot be used at the same time, nor `nested_A`/`nested_B` and `nested_A.nested_X` combination.
For such situations, {es-sql} will display an error message.

[float]
=== Paginating nested inner hits

When SELECTing a nested field, pagination will not work as expected, {es-sql} will return __at least__ the page size records. 
This is because of the way nested queries work in {es}: the root nested field will be returned and it's matching inner nested fields as well,
pagination taking place on the **root nested document and not on its inner hits**.

[float]
[[normalized-keyword-fields]]
=== Normalized `keyword` fields

`keyword` fields in {es} can be normalized by defining a `normalizer`. Such fields are not supported in {es-sql}.

[float]
=== Array type of fields

Array fields are not supported due to the "invisible" way in which {es} handles an array of values: the mapping doesn't indicate whether
a field is an array (has multiple values) or not, so without reading all the data, {es-sql} cannot know whether a field is a single or multi value.
When multiple values are returned for a field, by default, {es-sql} will throw an exception. However, it is possible to change this behavior through `field_multi_value_leniency` parameter in REST (disabled by default) or
`field.multi.value.leniency` in drivers (enabled by default).

[float]
=== Sorting by aggregation

When doing aggregations (`GROUP BY`) {es-sql} relies on {es}'s `composite` aggregation for its support for paginating results.
However this type of aggregation does come with a limitation: sorting can only be applied on the key used for the aggregation's buckets. 
{es-sql} overcomes this limitation by doing client-side sorting however as a safety measure, allows only up to *512* rows.

It is recommended to use `LIMIT` for queries that use sorting by aggregation, essentially indicating the top N results that are desired:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test GROUP BY age ORDER BY COUNT(*) LIMIT 100;
--------------------------------------------------

It is possible to run the same queries without a `LIMIT` however in that case if the maximum size (*10000*) is passed,
an exception will be returned as {es-sql} is unable to track (and sort) all the results returned.

[float]
=== Using aggregation functions on top of scalar functions

Aggregation functions like <<sql-functions-aggs-min,`MIN`>>, <<sql-functions-aggs-max,`MAX`>>, etc. can only be used
directly on fields, and so queries like `SELECT MAX(abs(age)) FROM test` are not possible.

[float]
=== Using a sub-select

Using sub-selects (`SELECT X FROM (SELECT Y)`) is **supported to a small degree**: any sub-select that can be "flattened" into a single
`SELECT` is possible with {es-sql}. For example:

["source","sql",subs="attributes,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{sql-specs}/docs/docs.csv-spec[limitationSubSelect]
--------------------------------------------------

The query above is possible because it is equivalent with:

["source","sql",subs="attributes,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{sql-specs}/docs/docs.csv-spec[limitationSubSelectRewritten]
--------------------------------------------------

But, if the sub-select would include a `GROUP BY` or `HAVING` or the enclosing `SELECT` would be more complex than `SELECT X
FROM (SELECT ...) WHERE [simple_condition]`, this is currently **un-supported**.

[float]
[[first-last-agg-functions-having-clause]]
=== Using <<sql-functions-aggs-first, `FIRST`>>/<<sql-functions-aggs-last,`LAST`>> aggregation functions in `HAVING` clause

Using `FIRST` and `LAST` in the `HAVING` clause is not supported. The same applies to
<<sql-functions-aggs-min,`MIN`>> and <<sql-functions-aggs-max,`MAX`>> when their target column
is of type <<keyword, `keyword`>> as they are internally translated to `FIRST` and `LAST`.

[float]
[[group-by-time]]
=== Using TIME data type in GROUP BY or <<sql-functions-grouping-histogram>>

Using `TIME` data type as a grouping key is currently not supported. For example:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT count(*) FROM test GROUP BY CAST(date_created AS TIME);
-------------------------------------------------------------

On the other hand, it can still be used if it's wrapped with a scalar function that returns another data type,
for example:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT count(*) FROM test GROUP BY MINUTE((CAST(date_created AS TIME));
-------------------------------------------------------------

`TIME` data type is also currently not supported in histogram grouping function. For example:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT HISTOGRAM(CAST(birth_date AS TIME), INTERVAL '10' MINUTES) as h, COUNT(*) FROM t GROUP BY h
-------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
[[geo-sql-limitations]]
=== Geo-related functions

Since `geo_shape` fields don't have doc values these fields cannot be used for filtering, grouping or sorting.

By default,`geo_points` fields are indexed and have doc values. However only latitude and longitude are stored and
indexed with some loss of precision from the original values (4.190951585769653E-8 for the latitude and
8.381903171539307E-8 for longitude). The altitude component is accepted but not stored in doc values nor indexed.
Therefore calling `ST_Z` function in the filtering, grouping or sorting will return `null`.

[float]
[[fields-from-source]]
=== Retrieving from `_source`

Most of {es-sql}'s columns are retrieved from the document's `_source` and there is no attempt to get the columns content from
`docvalue_fields` not even in the case <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> field is disabled in the mapping explicitly.
If a column, for which there is no source stored, is asked for in a query, {es-sql} will not return it. Field types that don't follow
this restriction are: `keyword`, `date`, `scaled_float`, `geo_point`, `geo_shape` since they are NOT returned from `_source` but
from `docvalue_fields`.

[float]
[[fields-from-docvalues]]
=== Retrieving from `docvalue_fields`

When the number of columns retrievable from `docvalue_fields` is greater than the configured <<dynamic-index-settings,`index.max_docvalue_fields_search` setting>>
the query will fail with `IllegalArgumentException: Trying to retrieve too many docvalue_fields` error. Either the mentioned {es}
setting needs to be adjusted or fewer columns retrievable from `docvalue_fields` need to be selected.

[float]
[[aggs-in-pivot]]
=== Aggregations in the <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>> clause

The aggregation expression in <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>> will currently accept only one aggregation. It is thus not possible to obtain multiple aggregations for any one pivoted column.

[float]
[[subquery-in-pivot]]
=== Using a subquery in <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>>'s `IN`-subclause

The values that the <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>> query could pivot must be provided in the query as a list of literals; providing a subquery instead to build this list is not currently supported. For example, in this query:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test_emp PIVOT (SUM(salary) FOR languages IN (1, 2))
-------------------------------------------------------------

the `languages` of interest must be listed explicitly: `IN (1, 2)`. On the other hand, this example would **not work**:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test_emp PIVOT (SUM(salary) FOR languages IN (SELECT languages FROM test_emp WHERE languages <=2 GROUP BY languages))
-------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

SQL: Fix ORDER BY YEAR() function (#51562)
Previously, if YEAR() was used as and ORDER BY argument without being
wrapped with another scalar (e.g. YEAR(birth_date) + 10), no script
ordering was used but instead the underlying field (e.g. birth_date)
was used instead as a performance optimisation. This works correctly if
YEAR() is the only ORDER BY arg but if further args are used as tie
breakers for the ordering wrong results are produced. This is because
2 rows with the different birth_date but on the same year are not tied
as the underlying ordering is on birth_date and not on the
YEAR(birth_date), and the following ORDER BY args are ignored.

Remove this optimisation for YEAR() to avoid incorrect results in
such cases.

As a consequence another bug is revealed: scalar functions on top
of nested fields produce scripted sorting/filtering which is not yet
supported. In such cases no error was thrown but instead all values for
such nested fields were null and were passed to the script implementing
the sorting/filtering, producing incorrect results.

Detect such cases and throw a validation exception.

Fixes: #51224

docs/reference/sql/limitations.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[sql-limitations]]
== SQL Limitations

[float]
[[large-parsing-trees]]
=== Large queries may throw `ParsingExpection`

Extremely large queries can consume too much memory during the parsing phase, in which case the {es-sql} engine will
abort parsing and throw an error. In such cases, consider reducing the query to a smaller size by potentially
simplifying it or splitting it into smaller queries.

[float]
[[sys-columns-describe-table-nested-fields]]
=== Nested fields in `SYS COLUMNS` and `DESCRIBE TABLE`

{es} has a special type of relationship fields called `nested` fields. In {es-sql} they can be used by referencing their inner
sub-fields. Even though `SYS COLUMNS` in non-driver mode (in the CLI and in REST calls) and `DESCRIBE TABLE` will still display
them as having the type `NESTED`, they cannot be used in a query. One can only reference its sub-fields in the form:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
[nested_field_name].[sub_field_name]
--------------------------------------------------

For example:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
SELECT dep.dep_name.keyword FROM test_emp GROUP BY languages;
--------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== Scalar functions on nested fields are not allowed in `WHERE` and `ORDER BY` clauses
{es-sql} doesn't support the usage of scalar functions on top of nested fields in `WHERE`
and `ORDER BY` clauses with the exception of comparison and logical operators.

For example:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test_emp WHERE LENGTH(dep.dep_name.keyword) > 5;
--------------------------------------------------

and

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test_emp ORDER BY YEAR(dep.start_date);
--------------------------------------------------

are not supported but:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test_emp WHERE dep.start_date >= CAST('2020-01-01' AS DATE) OR dep.dep_end_date IS NULL;
--------------------------------------------------

is supported.

[float]
=== Multi-nested fields

{es-sql} doesn't support multi-nested documents, so a query cannot reference more than one nested field in an index.
This applies to multi-level nested fields, but also multiple nested fields defined on the same level. For example, for this index:

[source, sql]
----------------------------------------------------
       column         |     type      |    mapping
----------------------+---------------+-------------
nested_A              |STRUCT         |NESTED
nested_A.nested_X     |STRUCT         |NESTED
nested_A.nested_X.text|VARCHAR        |KEYWORD
nested_A.text         |VARCHAR        |KEYWORD
nested_B              |STRUCT         |NESTED
nested_B.text         |VARCHAR        |KEYWORD
----------------------------------------------------

`nested_A` and `nested_B` cannot be used at the same time, nor `nested_A`/`nested_B` and `nested_A.nested_X` combination.
For such situations, {es-sql} will display an error message.

[float]
=== Paginating nested inner hits

When SELECTing a nested field, pagination will not work as expected, {es-sql} will return __at least__ the page size records. 
This is because of the way nested queries work in {es}: the root nested field will be returned and it's matching inner nested fields as well,
pagination taking place on the **root nested document and not on its inner hits**.

[float]
[[normalized-keyword-fields]]
=== Normalized `keyword` fields

`keyword` fields in {es} can be normalized by defining a `normalizer`. Such fields are not supported in {es-sql}.

[float]
=== Array type of fields

Array fields are not supported due to the "invisible" way in which {es} handles an array of values: the mapping doesn't indicate whether
a field is an array (has multiple values) or not, so without reading all the data, {es-sql} cannot know whether a field is a single or multi value.
When multiple values are returned for a field, by default, {es-sql} will throw an exception. However, it is possible to change this behavior through `field_multi_value_leniency` parameter in REST (disabled by default) or
`field.multi.value.leniency` in drivers (enabled by default).

[float]
=== Sorting by aggregation

When doing aggregations (`GROUP BY`) {es-sql} relies on {es}'s `composite` aggregation for its support for paginating results.
However this type of aggregation does come with a limitation: sorting can only be applied on the key used for the aggregation's buckets. 
{es-sql} overcomes this limitation by doing client-side sorting however as a safety measure, allows only up to *512* rows.

It is recommended to use `LIMIT` for queries that use sorting by aggregation, essentially indicating the top N results that are desired:

[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test GROUP BY age ORDER BY COUNT(*) LIMIT 100;
--------------------------------------------------

It is possible to run the same queries without a `LIMIT` however in that case if the maximum size (*10000*) is passed,
an exception will be returned as {es-sql} is unable to track (and sort) all the results returned.

[float]
=== Using aggregation functions on top of scalar functions

Aggregation functions like <<sql-functions-aggs-min,`MIN`>>, <<sql-functions-aggs-max,`MAX`>>, etc. can only be used
directly on fields, and so queries like `SELECT MAX(abs(age)) FROM test` are not possible.

[float]
=== Using a sub-select

Using sub-selects (`SELECT X FROM (SELECT Y)`) is **supported to a small degree**: any sub-select that can be "flattened" into a single
`SELECT` is possible with {es-sql}. For example:

["source","sql",subs="attributes,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{sql-specs}/docs/docs.csv-spec[limitationSubSelect]
--------------------------------------------------

The query above is possible because it is equivalent with:

["source","sql",subs="attributes,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{sql-specs}/docs/docs.csv-spec[limitationSubSelectRewritten]
--------------------------------------------------

But, if the sub-select would include a `GROUP BY` or `HAVING` or the enclosing `SELECT` would be more complex than `SELECT X
FROM (SELECT ...) WHERE [simple_condition]`, this is currently **un-supported**.

[float]
[[first-last-agg-functions-having-clause]]
=== Using <<sql-functions-aggs-first, `FIRST`>>/<<sql-functions-aggs-last,`LAST`>> aggregation functions in `HAVING` clause

Using `FIRST` and `LAST` in the `HAVING` clause is not supported. The same applies to
<<sql-functions-aggs-min,`MIN`>> and <<sql-functions-aggs-max,`MAX`>> when their target column
is of type <<keyword, `keyword`>> as they are internally translated to `FIRST` and `LAST`.

[float]
[[group-by-time]]
=== Using TIME data type in GROUP BY or <<sql-functions-grouping-histogram>>

Using `TIME` data type as a grouping key is currently not supported. For example:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT count(*) FROM test GROUP BY CAST(date_created AS TIME);
-------------------------------------------------------------

On the other hand, it can still be used if it's wrapped with a scalar function that returns another data type,
for example:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT count(*) FROM test GROUP BY MINUTE((CAST(date_created AS TIME));
-------------------------------------------------------------

`TIME` data type is also currently not supported in histogram grouping function. For example:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT HISTOGRAM(CAST(birth_date AS TIME), INTERVAL '10' MINUTES) as h, COUNT(*) FROM t GROUP BY h
-------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
[[geo-sql-limitations]]
=== Geo-related functions

Since `geo_shape` fields don't have doc values these fields cannot be used for filtering, grouping or sorting.

By default,`geo_points` fields are indexed and have doc values. However only latitude and longitude are stored and
indexed with some loss of precision from the original values (4.190951585769653E-8 for the latitude and
8.381903171539307E-8 for longitude). The altitude component is accepted but not stored in doc values nor indexed.
Therefore calling `ST_Z` function in the filtering, grouping or sorting will return `null`.

[float]
[[fields-from-source]]
=== Retrieving from `_source`

Most of {es-sql}'s columns are retrieved from the document's `_source` and there is no attempt to get the columns content from
`docvalue_fields` not even in the case <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> field is disabled in the mapping explicitly.
If a column, for which there is no source stored, is asked for in a query, {es-sql} will not return it. Field types that don't follow
this restriction are: `keyword`, `date`, `scaled_float`, `geo_point`, `geo_shape` since they are NOT returned from `_source` but
from `docvalue_fields`.

[float]
[[fields-from-docvalues]]
=== Retrieving from `docvalue_fields`

When the number of columns retrievable from `docvalue_fields` is greater than the configured <<dynamic-index-settings,`index.max_docvalue_fields_search` setting>>
the query will fail with `IllegalArgumentException: Trying to retrieve too many docvalue_fields` error. Either the mentioned {es}
setting needs to be adjusted or fewer columns retrievable from `docvalue_fields` need to be selected.

[float]
[[aggs-in-pivot]]
=== Aggregations in the <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>> clause

The aggregation expression in <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>> will currently accept only one aggregation. It is thus not possible to obtain multiple aggregations for any one pivoted column.

[float]
[[subquery-in-pivot]]
=== Using a subquery in <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>>'s `IN`-subclause

The values that the <<sql-syntax-pivot, `PIVOT`>> query could pivot must be provided in the query as a list of literals; providing a subquery instead to build this list is not currently supported. For example, in this query:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test_emp PIVOT (SUM(salary) FOR languages IN (1, 2))
-------------------------------------------------------------

the `languages` of interest must be listed explicitly: `IN (1, 2)`. On the other hand, this example would **not work**:

[source, sql]
-------------------------------------------------------------
SELECT * FROM test_emp PIVOT (SUM(salary) FOR languages IN (SELECT languages FROM test_emp WHERE languages <=2 GROUP BY languages))
-------------------------------------------------------------
