docs/reference/migration/migrate_7_0/discovery.asciidoc, before:

[float]
[[breaking_70_discovery_changes]]
=== Discovery changes

[float]
==== Cluster bootstrapping is required if discovery is configured

The first time a cluster is started, `cluster.initial_master_nodes` must be set
to perform cluster bootstrapping. It should contain the names of the
master-eligible nodes in the initial cluster and be defined on every
master-eligible node in the cluster. See <<discovery-settings,the discovery
settings summary>> for an example, and the
<<modules-discovery-bootstrap-cluster,cluster bootstrapping reference
documentation>> describes this setting in more detail.

The `discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes` setting is required during a rolling
upgrade from 6.x, but can be removed in all other circumstances.

[float]
==== Removing master-eligible nodes sometimes requires voting exclusions

If you wish to remove half or more of the master-eligible nodes from a cluster,
you must first exclude the affected nodes from the voting configuration using
the <<modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes,voting config exclusions API>>.
If you remove fewer than half of the master-eligible nodes at the same time,
voting exclusions are not required.  If you remove only master-ineligible nodes
such as data-only nodes or coordinating-only nodes, voting exclusions are not
required. Likewise, if you add nodes to the cluster, voting exclusions are not
required.

[float]
==== Discovery configuration is required in production

Production deployments of Elasticsearch now require at least one of the
following settings to be specified in the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration
file:

- `discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts`
- `discovery.zen.hosts_provider`
- `cluster.initial_master_nodes`

Commit message:

Forbid minimum_master_nodes in node settings
Today the `discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes` setting is ignored in 7.0 but
must still be permitted to live as a cluster-level setting for cases where 6.x
nodes leave and rejoin the cluster. However there is no good reason for it to
exist as a node-level setting on 7.0 nodes. This change prevents a 7.0 node
from starting up with the `discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes` setting set.

docs/reference/migration/migrate_7_0/discovery.asciidoc, after:

[float]
[[breaking_70_discovery_changes]]
=== Discovery changes

[float]
==== Cluster bootstrapping is required if discovery is configured

The first time a cluster is started, `cluster.initial_master_nodes` must be set
to perform cluster bootstrapping. It should contain the names of the
master-eligible nodes in the initial cluster and be defined on every
master-eligible node in the cluster. See <<discovery-settings,the discovery
settings summary>> for an example, and the
<<modules-discovery-bootstrap-cluster,cluster bootstrapping reference
documentation>> describes this setting in more detail.

[float]
==== Removing master-eligible nodes sometimes requires voting exclusions

If you wish to remove half or more of the master-eligible nodes from a cluster,
you must first exclude the affected nodes from the voting configuration using
the <<modules-discovery-adding-removing-nodes,voting config exclusions API>>.
If you remove fewer than half of the master-eligible nodes at the same time,
voting exclusions are not required.  If you remove only master-ineligible nodes
such as data-only nodes or coordinating-only nodes, voting exclusions are not
required. Likewise, if you add nodes to the cluster, voting exclusions are not
required.

[float]
==== Discovery configuration is required in production

Production deployments of Elasticsearch now require at least one of the
following settings to be specified in the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration
file:

- `discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts`
- `discovery.zen.hosts_provider`
- `cluster.initial_master_nodes`

[float]
==== Minimum master nodes must not be configured

The `discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes` setting must be removed from the
`elasticsearch.yml` configuration file. This setting is, however, required to
be set on master-eligible nodes running Elasticsearch 6 or earlier, so if you
are upgrading a node from version 6 to version 7 you must remove this setting
after shutting the version 6 node down for the last time before the upgrade.
