docs/reference/rest-api/security/get-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-get-settings]]
=== Get Security index settings
++++
<titleabbrev>Get Security settings</titleabbrev>
++++

[[security-api-get-settings-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To use this API, you must have at least the `read_security` cluster privilege.

[[security-api-get-settings-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}
This API allows a user to retrieve the user-configurable settings for the 
Security internal index (`.security` and associated indices). Only a subset of 
the index settings — those that are user-configurable—will be shown. This includes:

- `index.auto_expand_replicas`
- `index.number_of_replicas`

An example of retrieving the security settings:

[source,console]
-----------------------------------------------------------
GET /_security/settings
-----------------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:user_profiles]
// TEST[setup:service_token42]

The configurable settings can be modified using the 
<<security-api-update-settings,Update Security index settings>> API.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Fixes get settings and update settings security API docs (#105686) (#105698)
* [DOCS] Fixes get settings and update settings security API docs.

* [DOCS] Further edits.

docs/reference/rest-api/security/get-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-get-settings]]
=== Get Security index settings
++++
<titleabbrev>Get Security settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieves settings for the security internal indices.

[[security-api-get-settings-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To use this API, you must have at least the `read_security` cluster privilege.

[[security-api-get-settings-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}
This API allows a user to retrieve the user-configurable settings for the 
Security internal index (`.security` and associated indices). Only a subset of 
the index settings — those that are user-configurable—will be shown. This
includes:

- `index.auto_expand_replicas`
- `index.number_of_replicas`


[[security-api-get-settings-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

An example of retrieving the security settings:

[source,console]
-----------------------------------------------------------
GET /_security/settings
-----------------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:user_profiles]
// TEST[setup:service_token42]

The configurable settings can be modified using the 
<<security-api-update-settings,Update Security index settings>> API.
