docs/reference/rest-api/security/update-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-update-settings]]
=== Update Security index settings
++++
<titleabbrev>Update Security settings</titleabbrev>
++++

[[security-api-update-settings-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To use this API, you must have at least the `manage_security` cluster privilege.

[[security-api-update-settings-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}
This API allows a user to modify the settings for the Security internal indices 
(`.security` and associated indices). Only a subset of settings are allowed to 
be modified. This includes:

- `index.auto_expand_replicas`
- `index.number_of_replicas`

An example of modifying the Security settings:

[source,console]
-----------------------------------------------------------
PUT /_security/settings
{
    "security": {
        "index.auto_expand_replicas": "0-all"
    },
    "security-tokens": {
        "index.auto_expand_replicas": "0-all"
    },
    "security-profile": {
        "index.auto_expand_replicas": "0-all"
    }
}
-----------------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:making sure all the indices have been created reliably is difficult]

The configured settings can be retrieved using the 
<<security-api-get-settings,Get Security index settings>> API. If a given index 
is not in use on the system, but settings are provided for it, the request will 
be rejected - this API does not yet support configuring the settings for these 
indices before they are in use.


==== {api-request-body-title}

`security`::
(Optional, object) Settings to be used for the index used for most security 
configuration, including Native realm users and roles configured via the API.

`security-tokens`::
(Optional, object) Settings to be used for the index used to store 
<<security-api-get-token,tokens>>.

`security`::
(Optional, object) Settings to be used for the index used to store 
<<security-api-activate-user-profile, profile>> information.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Fixes get settings and update settings security API docs (#105686) (#105698)
* [DOCS] Fixes get settings and update settings security API docs.

* [DOCS] Further edits.

docs/reference/rest-api/security/update-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-update-settings]]
=== Update Security index settings
++++
<titleabbrev>Update Security settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Updates the settings of the security internal indices.


[[security-api-update-settings-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To use this API, you must have at least the `manage_security` cluster privilege.


[[security-api-update-settings-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`security`::
(Optional, object) Settings to be used for the index used for most security 
configuration, including Native realm users and roles configured via the API.

`security-tokens`::
(Optional, object) Settings to be used for the index used to store 
<<security-api-get-token,tokens>>.

`security`::
(Optional, object) Settings to be used for the index used to store 
<<security-api-activate-user-profile, profile>> information.


[[security-api-update-settings-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}
This API allows a user to modify the settings for the Security internal indices 
(`.security` and associated indices). Only a subset of settings are allowed to 
be modified. This includes:

- `index.auto_expand_replicas`
- `index.number_of_replicas`


[[security-api-update-settings-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

An example of modifying the Security settings:

[source,console]
-----------------------------------------------------------
PUT /_security/settings
{
    "security": {
        "index.auto_expand_replicas": "0-all"
    },
    "security-tokens": {
        "index.auto_expand_replicas": "0-all"
    },
    "security-profile": {
        "index.auto_expand_replicas": "0-all"
    }
}
-----------------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:making sure all the indices have been created reliably is difficult]

The configured settings can be retrieved using the 
<<security-api-get-settings,Get Security index settings>> API. If a given index 
is not in use on the system, but settings are provided for it, the request will 
be rejected - this API does not yet support configuring the settings for these 
indices before they are in use.
