docs/reference/setup/important-settings/discovery-settings.asciidoc, before:

[[discovery-settings]]
=== Important discovery and cluster formation settings
++++
<titleabbrev>Discovery and cluster formation settings</titleabbrev>
++++

There are two important discovery and cluster formation settings that should be
configured before going to production so that nodes in the cluster can discover
each other and elect a master node.

[float]
[[unicast.hosts]]
==== `discovery.seed_hosts`

Out of the box, without any network configuration, Elasticsearch will bind to
the available loopback addresses and will scan local ports 9300 to 9305 to try
to connect to other nodes running on the same server. This provides an auto-
clustering experience without having to do any configuration.

When you want to form a cluster with nodes on other hosts, you must use the
`discovery.seed_hosts` setting to provide a list of other nodes in the cluster
that are master-eligible and likely to be live and contactable in order to seed
the <<modules-discovery-hosts-providers,discovery process>>. This setting
should normally contain the addresses of all the master-eligible nodes in the
cluster.  This setting contains either an array of hosts or a comma-delimited
string. Each value should be in the form of `host:port` or `host` (where `port`
defaults to the setting `transport.profiles.default.port` falling back to
`transport.port` if not set). Note that IPv6 hosts must be bracketed. The
default for this setting is `127.0.0.1, [::1]`.

[float]
[[initial_master_nodes]]
==== `cluster.initial_master_nodes`

When you start a brand new Elasticsearch cluster for the very first time, there
is a <<modules-discovery-bootstrap-cluster,cluster bootstrapping>> step, which
determines the set of master-eligible nodes whose votes are counted in the very
first election. In <<dev-vs-prod-mode,development mode>>, with no discovery
settings configured, this step is automatically performed by the nodes
themselves. As this auto-bootstrapping is <<modules-discovery-quorums,inherently
unsafe>>, when you start a brand new cluster in <<dev-vs-prod-mode,production
mode>>, you must explicitly list the master-eligible nodes whose votes should be
counted in the very first election. This list is set using the
`cluster.initial_master_nodes` setting. You should not use this setting when
restarting a cluster or adding a new node to an existing cluster.

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------
discovery.seed_hosts:
   - 192.168.1.10:9300
   - 192.168.1.11 <1>
   - seeds.mydomain.com <2>
cluster.initial_master_nodes: <3>
   - master-node-a
   - master-node-b
   - master-node-c
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The port will default to `transport.profiles.default.port` and fallback to
    `transport.port` if not specified.
<2> If a hostname resolves to multiple IP addresses then the node will attempt to
    discover other nodes at all resolved addresses.
<3> The initial master nodes should be identified by their
    <<node.name,`node.name`>>, which defaults to their hostname. Make sure that
    the value in `cluster.initial_master_nodes` matches the `node.name`
    exactly. If you use a fully-qualified domain name such as
    `master-node-a.example.com` for your node names then you must use the
    fully-qualified name in this list; conversely if `node.name` is a bare
    hostname without any trailing qualifiers then you must also omit the
    trailing qualifiers in `cluster.initial_master_nodes`.

For more information, see <<modules-discovery-bootstrap-cluster>> and
<<modules-discovery-settings>>.

Commit message:

"Adding nodes" instructions only work on localhost
The introductory sections of the reference manual contains some simplified
instructions for adding a node to the cluster. Unfortunately they are a little
too simplified and only really work for clusters running on `localhost`. If you
try and follow these instructions for a distributed cluster then the new node
will, confusingly, auto-bootstrap itself into a distinct one-node cluster.

Multiple nodes running on localhost is a valid config, of course, but we should
spell out that these instructions are really only for experimentation and that
it takes a bit more work to add nodes to a distributed cluster. This commit
does so.

Also, the "important config" instructions for discovery say that you MUST set
`discovery.seed_hosts` whereas in fact it is fine to ignore this setting and
use a dynamic discovery mechanism instead. This commit weakens this statement
and links to the docs for dynamic discovery mechanisms.

Finally, this section is also overloaded with some technical details that are
not important for this context and are adequately covered elsewhere, and
completely fails to note that the default discovery port is 9300. This commit
addresses this.

docs/reference/setup/important-settings/discovery-settings.asciidoc, after:

[[discovery-settings]]
=== Important discovery and cluster formation settings
++++
<titleabbrev>Discovery and cluster formation settings</titleabbrev>
++++

There are two important discovery and cluster formation settings that should be
configured before going to production so that nodes in the cluster can discover
each other and elect a master node.

[float]
[[unicast.hosts]]
==== `discovery.seed_hosts`

Out of the box, without any network configuration, Elasticsearch will bind to
the available loopback addresses and will scan local ports 9300 to 9305 to try
to connect to other nodes running on the same server. This provides an
auto-clustering experience without having to do any configuration.

When you want to form a cluster with nodes on other hosts, you should use the
`discovery.seed_hosts` setting to provide a list of other nodes in the cluster
that are master-eligible and likely to be live and contactable in order to seed
the <<modules-discovery-hosts-providers,discovery process>>. This setting should
be a list of the addresses of all the master-eligible nodes in the cluster, each
of which can either be an IP address or a hostname that {es} resolves to IP
addresses using DNS. Note that IPv6 addresses must be bracketed.

If the addresses of your master-eligible nodes are not fixed then you should
instead use an <<built-in-hosts-providers,alternative hosts provider>> to find
their addresses dynamically.

[float]
[[initial_master_nodes]]
==== `cluster.initial_master_nodes`

When you start a brand new Elasticsearch cluster for the very first time, there
is a <<modules-discovery-bootstrap-cluster,cluster bootstrapping>> step, which
determines the set of master-eligible nodes whose votes are counted in the very
first election. In <<dev-vs-prod-mode,development mode>>, with no discovery
settings configured, this step is automatically performed by the nodes
themselves. As this auto-bootstrapping is <<modules-discovery-quorums,inherently
unsafe>>, when you start a brand new cluster in <<dev-vs-prod-mode,production
mode>>, you must explicitly list the master-eligible nodes whose votes should be
counted in the very first election. This list is set using the
`cluster.initial_master_nodes` setting. You should not use this setting when
restarting a cluster or adding a new node to an existing cluster.

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------
discovery.seed_hosts:
   - 192.168.1.10:9300
   - 192.168.1.11 <1>
   - seeds.mydomain.com <2>
cluster.initial_master_nodes: <3>
   - master-node-a
   - master-node-b
   - master-node-c
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The port will default to `transport.profiles.default.port` and fall back to
    `transport.port` if not specified. If neither of these settings is set then
    the default port is `9300`.
<2> If a hostname resolves to multiple IP addresses then the node will attempt to
    discover other nodes at all resolved addresses.
<3> The initial master nodes should be identified by their
    <<node.name,`node.name`>>, which defaults to their hostname. Make sure that
    the value in `cluster.initial_master_nodes` matches the `node.name`
    exactly. If you use a fully-qualified domain name such as
    `master-node-a.example.com` for your node names then you must use the
    fully-qualified name in this list; conversely if `node.name` is a bare
    hostname without any trailing qualifiers then you must also omit the
    trailing qualifiers in `cluster.initial_master_nodes`.

For more information, see <<modules-discovery-bootstrap-cluster>> and
<<modules-discovery-settings>>.
