docs/reference/monitoring/pause-export.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[pause-export]]
== Pausing Data Collection

To stop generating {monitoring} data in {es}, disable data collection:

[source,yaml]
---------------------------------------------------
xpack.monitoring.collection.enabled: false
---------------------------------------------------

When this setting is `false`, {es} monitoring data is not collected and all 
monitoring data from other sources such as {kib}, Beats, and Logstash is ignored.

You can update this setting by using the 
{ref}/cluster-update-settings.html[Cluster Update Settings API].

If you want to separately disable a specific exporter, you can specify the 
`enabled` setting (which defaults to `true`) per exporter. For example:

[source,yaml]
---------------------------------------------------
xpack.monitoring.exporters.my_http_exporter:
  type: http
  host: ["10.1.2.3:9200", "10.1.2.4:9200"]
  enabled: false <1>
---------------------------------------------------
<1> Disable the named exporter. If the same name as an existing exporter is not
    used, then this will create a completely new exporter that is completely
    ignored. This value can be set dynamically by using cluster settings.

NOTE: Defining a disabled exporter prevents the default exporter from being
      created.

To re-start data collection, re-enable these settings.

Commit message:

Implement xpack.monitoring.elasticsearch.collection.enabled setting (#33474) (#33791)
* Implement xpack.monitoring.elasticsearch.collection.enabled setting

* Fixing line lengths

* Updating constructor calls in test

* Removing unused import

* Fixing line lengths in test classes

* Make monitoringService.isElasticsearchCollectionEnabled() return true for tests

* Remove wrong expectation

* Adding unit tests for new flag to be false

* Fixing line wrapping/indentation for better readability

* Adding docs

* Fixing logic in ClusterStatsCollector::shouldCollect

* Rebasing with master and resolving conflicts

* Simplifying implementation by gating scheduling

* Doc fixes / improvements

* Making methods package private

* Fixing wording

* Fixing method access

docs/reference/monitoring/pause-export.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[pause-export]]
== Pausing Data Collection

To stop generating {monitoring} data in {es}, disable data collection:

[source,yaml]
---------------------------------------------------
xpack.monitoring.collection.enabled: false
---------------------------------------------------

When this setting is `false`, {es} monitoring data is not collected and all 
monitoring data from other sources such as {kib}, Beats, and Logstash is ignored.

You can update this setting by using the 
{ref}/cluster-update-settings.html[Cluster Update Settings API].

If you want to collect data from sources such as {kib}, Beats, and Logstash but
not collect data about your {es} cluster, you can disable data collection
just for {es}:

[source,yaml]
---------------------------------------------------
xpack.monitoring.collection.enabled: true
xpack.monitoring.elasticsearch.collection.enabled: false
---------------------------------------------------

If you want to separately disable a specific exporter, you can specify the 
`enabled` setting (which defaults to `true`) per exporter. For example:

[source,yaml]
---------------------------------------------------
xpack.monitoring.exporters.my_http_exporter:
  type: http
  host: ["10.1.2.3:9200", "10.1.2.4:9200"]
  enabled: false <1>
---------------------------------------------------
<1> Disable the named exporter. If the same name as an existing exporter is not
    used, then this will create a completely new exporter that is completely
    ignored. This value can be set dynamically by using cluster settings.

NOTE: Defining a disabled exporter prevents the default exporter from being
      created.

To re-start data collection, re-enable these settings.
