x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security/has-privileges.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-has-privileges]]
=== Has privileges API
++++
<titleabbrev>Has privileges</titleabbrev>
++++
[[security-api-has-privilege]]

The `has_privileges` API allows you to determine whether the logged in user has
a specified list of privileges.

==== Request

`GET _xpack/security/user/_has_privileges`


==== Description

For a list of the privileges that you can specify in this API,
see {stack-ov}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges].

A successful call returns a JSON structure that shows whether each specified
privilege is assigned to the user.


==== Request Body

`cluster`:: (list) A list of the cluster privileges that you want to check.

`index`::
`names`::: (list) A list of indices.
`privileges`::: (list) A list of the privileges that you want to check for the
specified indices.

`application`::
`application`::: (string) The name of the application.
`privileges`::: (list) A list of the privileges that you want to check for the
specified resources. May be either application privilege names, or the names of
actions that are granted by those privileges
`resources`::: (list) A list of resource names against which the privileges
should be checked

==== Authorization

All users can use this API, but only to determine their own privileges.
To check the privileges of other users, you must use the run as feature. For
more information, see
{xpack-ref}/run-as-privilege.html[Submitting Requests on Behalf of Other Users].


==== Examples

The following example checks whether the current user has a specific set of
cluster, index, and application privileges:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _xpack/security/user/_has_privileges
{
  "cluster": [ "monitor", "manage" ],
  "index" : [
    {
      "names": [ "suppliers", "products" ],
      "privileges": [ "read" ]
    },
    {
      "names": [ "inventory" ],
      "privileges" : [ "read", "write" ]
    }
  ],
  "application": [
    {
      "application": "inventory_manager",
      "privileges" : [ "read", "data:write/inventory" ],
      "resources" : [ "product/1852563" ]
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

The following example output indicates which privileges the "rdeniro" user has:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "username": "rdeniro",
  "has_all_requested" : false,
  "cluster" : {
    "monitor" : true,
    "manage" : false
  },
  "index" : {
    "suppliers" : {
      "read" : true
    },
    "products" : {
      "read" : true
    },
    "inventory" : {
      "read" : true,
      "write" : false
    }
  },
  "application" : {
    "inventory_manager" : {
      "product/1852563" : {
        "read": false,
        "data:write/inventory": false
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"rdeniro"/"$body.username"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: false/: true/]

Commit message:

Permission for restricted indices (#37577)
This grants the capability to grant privileges over certain restricted
indices (.security and .security-6 at the moment).
It also removes the special status of the superuser role.

IndicesPermission.Group is extended by adding the `allow_restricted_indices`
boolean flag. By default the flag is false. When it is toggled, you acknowledge
that the indices under the scope of the permission group can cover the
restricted indices as well. Otherwise, by default, restricted indices are ignored
when granting privileges, thus rendering them hidden for authorization purposes.
This effectively adds a confirmation "check-box" for roles that might grant
privileges to restricted indices.

The "special status" of the superuser role has been removed and coded as
any other role:
```
new RoleDescriptor("superuser",
    new String[] { "all" },
    new RoleDescriptor.IndicesPrivileges[] {
        RoleDescriptor.IndicesPrivileges.builder()
            .indices("*")
            .privileges("all")
            .allowRestrictedIndices(true)
// this ----^
            .build() },
            new RoleDescriptor.ApplicationResourcePrivileges[] {
                RoleDescriptor.ApplicationResourcePrivileges.builder()
                    .application("*")
                    .privileges("*")
                    .resources("*")
                    .build()
            },
            null, new String[] { "*" },
    MetadataUtils.DEFAULT_RESERVED_METADATA,
    Collections.emptyMap());
```
In the context of the Backup .security work, this allows the creation of a
"curator role" that would permit listing (get settings) for all indices
(including the restricted ones). That way the curator role would be able to
ist and snapshot all indices, but not read or restore any of them.

Supersedes #36765
Relates #34454

x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security/has-privileges.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-has-privileges]]
=== Has privileges API
++++
<titleabbrev>Has privileges</titleabbrev>
++++
[[security-api-has-privilege]]

The `has_privileges` API allows you to determine whether the logged in user has
a specified list of privileges.

==== Request

`GET _xpack/security/user/_has_privileges`


==== Description

For a list of the privileges that you can specify in this API,
see {stack-ov}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges].

A successful call returns a JSON structure that shows whether each specified
privilege is assigned to the user.


==== Request Body

`cluster`:: (list) A list of the cluster privileges that you want to check.

`index`::
`names`::: (list) A list of indices.
`allow_restricted_indices`::: (boolean) If `names` contains internal restricted
that also have to be covered by the has-privilege check, then this has to be
set to `true`. By default this is `false` because restricted indices should
generaly not be "visible" to APIs. For most use cases it is safe to ignore
this parameter.
`privileges`::: (list) A list of the privileges that you want to check for the
specified indices.

`application`::
`application`::: (string) The name of the application.
`privileges`::: (list) A list of the privileges that you want to check for the
specified resources. May be either application privilege names, or the names of
actions that are granted by those privileges
`resources`::: (list) A list of resource names against which the privileges
should be checked

==== Authorization

All users can use this API, but only to determine their own privileges.
To check the privileges of other users, you must use the run as feature. For
more information, see
{xpack-ref}/run-as-privilege.html[Submitting Requests on Behalf of Other Users].


==== Examples

The following example checks whether the current user has a specific set of
cluster, index, and application privileges:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _xpack/security/user/_has_privileges
{
  "cluster": [ "monitor", "manage" ],
  "index" : [
    {
      "names": [ "suppliers", "products" ],
      "privileges": [ "read" ]
    },
    {
      "names": [ "inventory" ],
      "privileges" : [ "read", "write" ]
    }
  ],
  "application": [
    {
      "application": "inventory_manager",
      "privileges" : [ "read", "data:write/inventory" ],
      "resources" : [ "product/1852563" ]
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

The following example output indicates which privileges the "rdeniro" user has:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "username": "rdeniro",
  "has_all_requested" : false,
  "cluster" : {
    "monitor" : true,
    "manage" : false
  },
  "index" : {
    "suppliers" : {
      "read" : true
    },
    "products" : {
      "read" : true
    },
    "inventory" : {
      "read" : true,
      "write" : false
    }
  },
  "application" : {
    "inventory_manager" : {
      "product/1852563" : {
        "read": false,
        "data:write/inventory": false
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"rdeniro"/"$body.username"/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: false/: true/]
