% This is generated by ESQL's QuerySettingsTests. Do not edit it. See ../README.md for how to regenerate it.

### `unmapped_fields` [esql-unmapped_fields]
```{applies_to}
serverless: preview
stack: preview 9.3.0
```
Determines how unmapped fields are treated. Possible values are:

- `DEFAULT` - Standard ESQL queries fail when referencing unmapped fields, while other query types (e.g. PromQL)
may treat them differently.
- `NULLIFY` - Treats unmapped fields as null values.
- `LOAD` - Attempts to load unmapped fields from the stored
[`_source`](/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md) with type `keyword`.
{applies_to}`stack: preview 9.4`

In the simplest form, an `unmapped field` is one referenced in a query while absent from the mapping of the index being queried.
If querying multiple indices, a field is considered `partially unmapped` if it was referenced in the query while absent from the
mapping of at least one of the indices.

Special notes about the `LOAD` option:
- `PromQL`, `FORK`, `LOOKUP JOIN`, subqueries, views, and full-text search functions are not yet supported anywhere in the query.
- Referencing subfields of `flattened` parents is not supported.
- Referencing partially unmapped non-keyword fields must be inside a cast or a conversion function (e.g. `::TYPE` or `TO_TYPE`),
unless referenced in a `KEEP` or `DROP`.


**Type**: `keyword`

## Example

Field `unmapped_message` is not mapped; it doesn't appear in the mapping of index `partial_mapping_sample_data`. It appears,
however, in the stored `_source` of all documents in this index.

The `NULLIFY` option will treat this field as `null`.


```esql
SET unmapped_fields="nullify";
FROM partial_mapping_sample_data
| KEEP event_duration, unmapped_message
| SORT event_duration
| LIMIT 1
```

| event_duration:long | unmapped_message:null |
| --- | --- |
| 725447 | null |

## Example

Field `unmapped_message` is not mapped; it doesn't appear in the mapping of index `partial_mapping_sample_data`. It appears,
however, in the stored `_source` of all documents in this index.

The `LOAD` option will load this field from `_source` and treat it like a `keyword` type field.


```esql
SET unmapped_fields="load";
FROM partial_mapping_sample_data
| KEEP event_duration, unmapped_message
| SORT event_duration
| LIMIT 1
```

| event_duration:long | unmapped_message:keyword |
| --- | --- |
| 725447 | Disconnection error |

