x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api]]
== Security APIs

You can use the following APIs to perform security activities.

* <<security-api-authenticate>>
* <<security-api-clear-cache>>
* <<security-api-has-privileges>>
* <<security-api-ssl>>

[float]
[[security-api-app-privileges]]
=== Application privileges

You can use the following APIs to add, update, retrieve, and remove application 
privileges:

* <<security-api-put-privileges,Create or update privileges>> 
* <<security-api-delete-privilege,Delete privileges>>
* <<security-api-get-privileges,Get privileges>>

[float]
[[security-role-mapping-apis]]
=== Role mappings

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, update, and retrieve role mappings:

* <<security-api-put-role-mapping,Create or update role mappings>> 
* <<security-api-delete-role-mapping,Delete role mappings>>
* <<security-api-get-role-mapping,Get role mappings>>

[float]
[[security-role-apis]]
=== Roles

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, update, and retrieve roles in the native realm:

* <<security-api-put-role,Create or update roles>>
* <<security-api-clear-role-cache,Clear roles cache>>
* <<security-api-delete-role,Delete roles>>
* <<security-api-get-role,Get roles>>

[float]
[[security-token-apis]]
=== Tokens

You can use the following APIs to create and invalidate bearer tokens for access
without requiring basic authentication:

* <<security-api-get-token,Get token>>
* <<security-api-invalidate-token,Invalidate token>>

[float]
[[security-api-keys]]
=== API Keys

You can use the following API to create API keys for access
without requiring basic authentication:

* <<security-api-create-api-key,Create API Key>>

[float]
[[security-user-apis]]
=== Users

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, update, or retrieve users in the
native realm:

* <<security-api-put-user,Create or update users>>
* <<security-api-change-password,Change passwords>>
* <<security-api-delete-user,Delete users>>
* <<security-api-disable-user,Disable users>>
* <<security-api-enable-user,Enable users>>
* <<security-api-get-user,Get users>>


include::security/authenticate.asciidoc[]
include::security/change-password.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-roles-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/put-app-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-role-mappings.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-app-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-role-mappings.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/disable-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/enable-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-app-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-role-mappings.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-tokens.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/has-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/invalidate-tokens.asciidoc[]
include::security/ssl.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-api-keys.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Invalidate API rest action
This commit adds invalidate API rest action.
Also enhances create API key rest case to now verify
login by API key.
A new section type has been added to transform response
values before stashing. The use case was for creation of
base64 encoded credentials for authenticating with API
keys.

x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api]]
== Security APIs

You can use the following APIs to perform security activities.

* <<security-api-authenticate>>
* <<security-api-clear-cache>>
* <<security-api-has-privileges>>
* <<security-api-ssl>>

[float]
[[security-api-app-privileges]]
=== Application privileges

You can use the following APIs to add, update, retrieve, and remove application 
privileges:

* <<security-api-put-privileges,Create or update privileges>> 
* <<security-api-delete-privilege,Delete privileges>>
* <<security-api-get-privileges,Get privileges>>

[float]
[[security-role-mapping-apis]]
=== Role mappings

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, update, and retrieve role mappings:

* <<security-api-put-role-mapping,Create or update role mappings>> 
* <<security-api-delete-role-mapping,Delete role mappings>>
* <<security-api-get-role-mapping,Get role mappings>>

[float]
[[security-role-apis]]
=== Roles

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, update, and retrieve roles in the native realm:

* <<security-api-put-role,Create or update roles>>
* <<security-api-clear-role-cache,Clear roles cache>>
* <<security-api-delete-role,Delete roles>>
* <<security-api-get-role,Get roles>>

[float]
[[security-token-apis]]
=== Tokens

You can use the following APIs to create and invalidate bearer tokens for access
without requiring basic authentication:

* <<security-api-get-token,Get token>>
* <<security-api-invalidate-token,Invalidate token>>

[float]
[[security-api-keys]]
=== API Keys

You can use the following API to create, invalidate API keys for access
without requiring basic authentication:

* <<security-api-create-api-key,Create API Key>>
* <<security-api-invalidate-api-key,Invalidate API Key>>

[float]
[[security-user-apis]]
=== Users

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, update, or retrieve users in the
native realm:

* <<security-api-put-user,Create or update users>>
* <<security-api-change-password,Change passwords>>
* <<security-api-delete-user,Delete users>>
* <<security-api-disable-user,Disable users>>
* <<security-api-enable-user,Enable users>>
* <<security-api-get-user,Get users>>


include::security/authenticate.asciidoc[]
include::security/change-password.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-roles-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/put-app-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-role-mappings.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-app-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-role-mappings.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/disable-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/enable-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-app-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-role-mappings.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-tokens.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-users.asciidoc[]
include::security/has-privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/invalidate-tokens.asciidoc[]
include::security/ssl.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-api-keys.asciidoc[]
include::security/invalidate-api-keys.asciidoc[]
