docs/reference/analysis/tokenfilters/apostrophe-tokenfilter.asciidoc, before:

[[analysis-apostrophe-tokenfilter]]
=== Apostrophe token filter
++++
<titleabbrev>Apostrophe</titleabbrev>
++++

Strips all characters after an apostrophe, including the apostrophe itself.

This filter is included in {es}'s built-in <<turkish-analyzer,Turkish language
analyzer>>. It uses Lucene's
https://lucene.apache.org/core/{lucene_version_path}/analyzers-common/org/apache/lucene/analysis/tr/ApostropheFilter.html[ApostropheFilter],
which was built for the Turkish language.


[[analysis-apostrophe-tokenfilter-analyze-ex]]
==== Example

The following <<indices-analyze,analyze API>> request demonstrates how the
apostrophe token filter works.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_analyze
{
  "tokenizer" : "standard",
  "filter" : ["apostrophe"],
  "text" : "Istanbul'a veya Istanbul'dan"
}
--------------------------------------------------

The filter produces the following tokens:

[source,text]
--------------------------------------------------
[ Istanbul, veya, Istanbul ]
--------------------------------------------------

/////////////////////
[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "tokens" : [
    {
      "token" : "Istanbul",
      "start_offset" : 0,
      "end_offset" : 10,
      "type" : "<ALPHANUM>",
      "position" : 0
    },
    {
      "token" : "veya",
      "start_offset" : 11,
      "end_offset" : 15,
      "type" : "<ALPHANUM>",
      "position" : 1
    },
    {
      "token" : "Istanbul",
      "start_offset" : 16,
      "end_offset" : 28,
      "type" : "<ALPHANUM>",
      "position" : 2
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
/////////////////////

[[analysis-apostrophe-tokenfilter-analyzer-ex]]
==== Add to an analyzer

The following <<indices-create-index,create index API>> request uses the
apostrophe token filter to configure a new 
<<analysis-custom-analyzer,custom analyzer>>.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /apostrophe_example
{
    "settings" : {
        "analysis" : {
            "analyzer" : {
                "standard_apostrophe" : {
                    "tokenizer" : "standard",
                    "filter" : ["apostrophe"]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add attribute for Lucene analysis links
Adds a `lucene-analysis-docs` attribute for the Lucene `/analysis/`
javadocs directory. This should prevent typos and keep the docs DRY.

docs/reference/analysis/tokenfilters/apostrophe-tokenfilter.asciidoc, after:

[[analysis-apostrophe-tokenfilter]]
=== Apostrophe token filter
++++
<titleabbrev>Apostrophe</titleabbrev>
++++

Strips all characters after an apostrophe, including the apostrophe itself.

This filter is included in {es}'s built-in <<turkish-analyzer,Turkish language
analyzer>>. It uses Lucene's
{lucene-analysis-docs}/tr/ApostropheFilter.html[ApostropheFilter], which was
built for the Turkish language.


[[analysis-apostrophe-tokenfilter-analyze-ex]]
==== Example

The following <<indices-analyze,analyze API>> request demonstrates how the
apostrophe token filter works.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_analyze
{
  "tokenizer" : "standard",
  "filter" : ["apostrophe"],
  "text" : "Istanbul'a veya Istanbul'dan"
}
--------------------------------------------------

The filter produces the following tokens:

[source,text]
--------------------------------------------------
[ Istanbul, veya, Istanbul ]
--------------------------------------------------

/////////////////////
[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "tokens" : [
    {
      "token" : "Istanbul",
      "start_offset" : 0,
      "end_offset" : 10,
      "type" : "<ALPHANUM>",
      "position" : 0
    },
    {
      "token" : "veya",
      "start_offset" : 11,
      "end_offset" : 15,
      "type" : "<ALPHANUM>",
      "position" : 1
    },
    {
      "token" : "Istanbul",
      "start_offset" : 16,
      "end_offset" : 28,
      "type" : "<ALPHANUM>",
      "position" : 2
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
/////////////////////

[[analysis-apostrophe-tokenfilter-analyzer-ex]]
==== Add to an analyzer

The following <<indices-create-index,create index API>> request uses the
apostrophe token filter to configure a new 
<<analysis-custom-analyzer,custom analyzer>>.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /apostrophe_example
{
    "settings" : {
        "analysis" : {
            "analyzer" : {
                "standard_apostrophe" : {
                    "tokenizer" : "standard",
                    "filter" : ["apostrophe"]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
