[[modules-network-threading-model]]
==== Networking threading model

This section describes the threading model used by the networking subsystem in
{es}. This information isn't required to use {es}, but it may be useful to
advanced users who are diagnosing network problems in a cluster.

{es} nodes communicate over a collection of TCP channels that together form a
transport connection. {es} clients communicate with the cluster over HTTP,
which also uses one or more TCP channels. Each of these TCP channels is owned
by exactly one of the `transport_worker` threads in the node. This owning
thread is chosen when the channel is opened and remains the same for the
lifetime of the channel.

Each `transport_worker` thread has sole responsibility for sending and
receiving data over the channels it owns. Additionally, each http and transport
server socket is assigned to one of the `transport_worker` threads. That worker
has the responsibility of accepting new incoming connections to the server
socket it owns.

If a thread in {es} wants to send data over a particular channel, it passes the
data to the owning `transport_worker` thread for the actual transmission.

Normally the `transport_worker` threads will not completely handle the messages
they receive. Instead, they will do a small amount of preliminary processing
and then dispatch (hand off) the message to a different
<<modules-threadpool,threadpool>> for the rest of their handling. For instance,
bulk messages are dispatched to the `write` threadpool, searches are dispatched
to one of the `search` threadpools, and requests for statistics and other
management tasks are mostly dispatched to the `management` threadpool. However
in some cases the processing of a message is expected to be so quick that {es}
will do all of the processing on the `transport_worker` thread rather than
incur the overhead of dispatching it elsewhere.

By default, there is one `transport_worker` thread per CPU. In contrast, there
may sometimes be tens-of-thousands of TCP channels. If data arrives on a TCP
channel and its owning `transport_worker` thread is busy, the data isn't
processed until the thread finishes whatever it is doing. Similarly, outgoing
data are not sent over a channel until the owning `transport_worker` thread is
free. This means that we require every `transport_worker` thread to be idle
frequently. An idle `transport_worker` looks something like this in a stack
dump:

[source,text]
----
"elasticsearch[instance-0000000004][transport_worker][T#1]" #32 daemon prio=5 os_prio=0 cpu=9645.94ms elapsed=501.63s tid=0x00007fb83b6307f0 nid=0x1c4 runnable  [0x00007fb7b8ffe000]
   java.lang.Thread.State: RUNNABLE
	at sun.nio.ch.EPoll.wait(java.base@17.0.2/Native Method)
	at sun.nio.ch.EPollSelectorImpl.doSelect(java.base@17.0.2/EPollSelectorImpl.java:118)
	at sun.nio.ch.SelectorImpl.lockAndDoSelect(java.base@17.0.2/SelectorImpl.java:129)
	- locked <0x00000000c443c518> (a sun.nio.ch.Util$2)
	- locked <0x00000000c38f7700> (a sun.nio.ch.EPollSelectorImpl)
	at sun.nio.ch.SelectorImpl.select(java.base@17.0.2/SelectorImpl.java:146)
	at io.netty.channel.nio.NioEventLoop.select(NioEventLoop.java:813)
	at io.netty.channel.nio.NioEventLoop.run(NioEventLoop.java:460)
	at io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor$4.run(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:986)
	at io.netty.util.internal.ThreadExecutorMap$2.run(ThreadExecutorMap.java:74)
	at java.lang.Thread.run(java.base@17.0.2/Thread.java:833)
----

In the <<cluster-nodes-hot-threads>> API an idle `transport_worker` thread is
reported like this:

[source,text]
----
   0.0% [cpu=0.0%, idle=100.0%] (500ms out of 500ms) cpu usage by thread 'elasticsearch[instance-0000000004][transport_worker][T#1]'
     10/10 snapshots sharing following 9 elements
       java.base@17.0.2/sun.nio.ch.EPoll.wait(Native Method)
       java.base@17.0.2/sun.nio.ch.EPollSelectorImpl.doSelect(EPollSelectorImpl.java:118)
       java.base@17.0.2/sun.nio.ch.SelectorImpl.lockAndDoSelect(SelectorImpl.java:129)
       java.base@17.0.2/sun.nio.ch.SelectorImpl.select(SelectorImpl.java:146)
       io.netty.channel.nio.NioEventLoop.select(NioEventLoop.java:813)
       io.netty.channel.nio.NioEventLoop.run(NioEventLoop.java:460)
       io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor$4.run(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:986)
       io.netty.util.internal.ThreadExecutorMap$2.run(ThreadExecutorMap.java:74)
       java.base@17.0.2/java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:833)
----

Note that `transport_worker` threads should always be in state `RUNNABLE`, even
when waiting for input, because they block in the native `EPoll#wait` method. The `idle=`
time reports the proportion of time the thread spent waiting for input, whereas the `cpu=` time
reports the proportion of time the thread spent processing input it has received.

If a `transport_worker` thread is not frequently idle, it may build up a
backlog of work. This can cause delays in processing messages on the channels
that it owns. It's hard to predict exactly which work will be delayed:

* There are many more channels than threads. If work related to one channel is
causing delays to its worker thread, all other channels owned by that thread
will also suffer delays.

* The mapping from TCP channels to worker threads is fixed but arbitrary. Each
channel is assigned an owning thread in a round-robin fashion when the channel
is opened. Each worker thread is responsible for many different kinds of
channel.

* There are many channels open between each pair of nodes. For each request,
{es} will choose from the appropriate channels in a round-robin fashion. Some
requests may end up on a channel owned by a delayed worker while other
identical requests will be sent on a channel that's working smoothly.

If the backlog builds up too far, some messages may be delayed by many seconds.
The node might even <<cluster-fault-detection,fail its health checks>> and be
removed from the cluster. Sometimes, you can find evidence of busy
`transport_worker` threads using the <<cluster-nodes-hot-threads>> API.
However, this API itself sends network messages so may not work correctly if
the `transport_worker` threads are too busy. It is more reliable to use
`jstack` to obtain stack dumps or use Java Flight Recorder to obtain a
profiling trace. These tools are independent of any work the JVM is performing.

It may also be possible to identify some reasons for delays from the server
logs, particularly looking at warnings from
`org.elasticsearch.transport.InboundHandler` and
`org.elasticsearch.transport.OutboundHandler`. Warnings about long processing
times from the `InboundHandler` are particularly indicative of incorrect
threading behaviour, whereas the transmission time reported by the
`OutboundHandler` includes time spent waiting for network congestion and the
`transport_worker` thread is free to do other work during this time.
