docs/java-rest/high-level/security/enroll_kibana.asciidoc, before:

--
:api: kibana-enrollment
:request: KibanaEnrollmentRequest
:response: KibanaEnrollmentResponse
--

[id="{upid}-{api}"]
=== Enroll Kibana API

Allows a kibana instance to configure itself to communicate with a secured {es} cluster.

include::../execution.asciidoc[]

[id="{upid}-{api}-response"]
==== Enroll Kibana Response

The returned +{response}+ allows to retrieve information about the
executed operation as follows:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/EnrollDocumentationIT.java[{api}-response]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> A token that can be used as a bearer token for the `elastic/kibana` service account.
<2> The CA certificate that has signed the certificate that the cluster uses for TLS on the HTTP layer,
as a Base64 encoded string of the ASN.1 DER encoding of the certificate.

[id="{upid}-{api}-execute-async"]
==== Asynchronous Execution

This request can be executed asynchronously using the `security().enrollClientAsync()`
method:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/EnrollDocumentationIT.java[{api}-execute-async]
--------------------------------------------------

A typical listener for a `KibanaEnrollmentResponse` looks like:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/EnrollDocumentationIT.java[{api}-execute-listener]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Called when the execution is successfully completed. The response is
provided as an argument
<2> Called in case of failure. The raised exception is provided as an argument

Commit message:

Address feedback
- nits
- removed unecessary parsing from KibanaEnrollmentResponse
- added token name in the response
- update docs

docs/java-rest/high-level/security/enroll_kibana.asciidoc, after:

--
:api: kibana-enrollment
:request: KibanaEnrollmentRequest
:response: KibanaEnrollmentResponse
--

[id="{upid}-{api}"]
=== Enroll Kibana API

Allows a kibana instance to configure itself to communicate with a secured {es} cluster.

include::../execution.asciidoc[]

[id="{upid}-{api}-response"]
==== Enroll Kibana Response

The returned +{response}+ allows to retrieve information about the
executed operation as follows:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/EnrollmentDocumentationIT.java[{api}-response]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of a token that can be used as a bearer token for the `elastic/kibana` service account.
See link:/security/authentication/service-accounts.html#authenticate-with-service-account-token.html[Authenticate with service account tokens] for more information
<2> The value of the aforementioned token.
<3> The CA certificate used to sign the node certificates that {es} uses for TLS on the HTTP layer.
The certificate is returned as a Base64 encoded string of the ASN.1 DER encoding of the certificate.


[id="{upid}-{api}-execute-async"]
==== Asynchronous Execution

This request can be executed asynchronously using the `security().enrollClientAsync()`
method:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/EnrollmentDocumentationIT.java[{api}-execute-async]
--------------------------------------------------

A typical listener for a `KibanaEnrollmentResponse` looks like:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/EnrollmentDocumentationIT.java[{api}-execute-listener]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Called when the execution is successfully completed. The response is
provided as an argument
<2> Called in case of failure. The raised exception is provided as an argument
