docs/reference/snapshot-restore/apis/get-snapshot-api.asciidoc, before:

[[get-snapshot-api]]
=== Get snapshot API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get snapshot</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieves information about one or more snapshots.

////
[source,console]
----
PUT /_snapshot/my_repository
{
  "type": "fs",
  "settings": {
    "location": "my_backup_location"
  }
}

PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/my_snapshot?wait_for_completion=true

PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_1?wait_for_completion=true
PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_2?wait_for_completion=true
PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_3?wait_for_completion=true
----
// TESTSETUP
////

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/my_snapshot
----

[[get-snapshot-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>`

[[get-snapshot-api-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the
`monitor_snapshot`, `create_snapshot`, or `manage`
<<privileges-list-cluster,cluster privilege>> to use this API.

[[get-snapshot-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

Use the get snapshot API to return information about one or more snapshots, including:

* Start and end time values
* Version of {es} that created the snapshot
* List of included indices
* Current state of the snapshot
* List of failures that occurred during the snapshot

[[get-snapshot-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<repository>`::
(Required, string)
Comma-separated list of snapshot repository names used to limit the request.
Wildcard (`*`) expressions are supported.
+
To get information about all snapshot repositories registered in the
cluster, omit this parameter or use `*` or `_all`.

`<snapshot>`::
(Required, string)
Comma-separated list of snapshot names to retrieve. Also accepts wildcards (`*`).
+
* To get information about all snapshots in a registered repository, use a wildcard (`*`) or `_all`.
* To get information about any snapshots that are currently running, use `_current`.
+
NOTE: Using `_all` in a request fails if any snapshots are unavailable.
Set <<get-snapshot-api-ignore-unavailable,`ignore_unavailable`>> to `true` to return only available snapshots.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[get-snapshot-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=master-timeout]

[[get-snapshot-api-ignore-unavailable]]
`ignore_unavailable`::
(Optional, Boolean)
If `false`, the request returns an error for any snapshots that are unavailable. Defaults to `false`.
+
If `true`, the request ignores snapshots that are unavailable, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned.

`verbose`::
(Optional, Boolean)
If `true`, returns additional information about each snapshot such as the
version of Elasticsearch which took the snapshot, the start and end times of
the snapshot, and the number of shards snapshotted. Defaults to `true`. If
`false`, omits the additional information.

`index_details`::
(Optional, Boolean)
If `true`, returns additional information about each index in the snapshot
comprising the number of shards in the index, the total size of the index in
bytes, and the maximum number of segments per shard in the index. Defaults to
`false`, meaning that this information is omitted.

`sort`::
(Optional, string)
Allows setting a sort order for the result. Defaults to `start_time`, i.e. sorting by snapshot start time stamp.
+
.Valid values for `sort`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`start_time`::
  Sort snapshots by their start time stamp and break ties by snapshot name.

`duration`::
  Sort snapshots by their duration and break ties by snapshot name.

`name`::
  Sort snapshots by their name.

`index_count`::
  Sort snapshots by the number of indices they contain and break ties by snapshot name.

`shard_count`::
  Sort snapshots by the number of shards they contain and break ties by snapshot name.

`failed_shard_count`::
  Sort snapshots by the number of shards that they failed to snapshot and break ties by snapshot name.
====

`size`::
(Optional, integer)
 Maximum number of snapshots to return. Defaults to `0` which means return all that match the request without limit.

`order`::
(Optional, string)
Sort order. Valid values are `asc` for ascending and `desc` for descending order. Defaults to `asc`, meaning ascending order.

`after`::
(Optional, string)
Offset identifier to start pagination from as returned by the `next` field in the response body.

`offset`::
(Optional, integer)
Numeric offset to start pagination from based on the snapshots matching this request. Using a non-zero value for this parameter is mutually
exclusive with using the `after` parameter. Defaults to `0`.

NOTE: The `after` parameter and `next` field allow for iterating through snapshots with some consistency guarantees regarding concurrent
creation or deletion of snapshots. It is guaranteed that  any snapshot that exists at the beginning of the iteration and not concurrently
deleted will be seen during the iteration. Snapshots concurrently created may be seen during an iteration.

NOTE: The pagination parameters `size`, `order`, `after`, `offset` and `sort` are not supported when using `verbose=false` and the sort
order for requests with `verbose=false` is undefined.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[get-snapshot-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

`snapshot`::
(string)
Name of the snapshot.

`uuid`::
(string)
Universally unique identifier (UUID) of the snapshot.

`version_id`::
(int)
Build ID of the {es} version used to create the snapshot.

`version`::
(float)
{es} version used to create the snapshot.

`indices`::
(array)
List of indices included in the snapshot.

`index_details`::
(object)
Details of each index in the snapshot, keyed by index name. Only present if the
`?index_details` query parameter is set, and only contains details for indices
that were completely snapshotted in a sufficiently recent version of {es}.
+
.Properties of `index_details`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`shard_count`::
(integer)
Number of shards in this index.

`size`::
(string)
Total size of all shards in this index. Only present if the `?human` query
paramter is set.

`size_in_bytes`::
(long)
Total size of all shards in this index, in bytes.

`max_segments_per_shard`::
(integer)
Maximum number of segments per shard in this index snapshot.
====

`data_streams`::
(array)
List of <<data-streams,data streams>> included in the snapshot.

`include_global_state`::
(Boolean)
Indicates whether the current cluster state is included in the snapshot.

[[get-snapshot-api-feature-states]]
`feature_states`::
(array)
List of feature states which were included when the snapshot was taken,
including the list of system indices included as part of the feature state. The
`feature_name` field of each can be used in the `feature_states` parameter when
restoring the snapshot to restore a subset of feature states. Only present if
the snapshot includes one or more feature states.

`start_time`::
(string)
Date timestamp of when the snapshot creation process started.

`start_time_in_millis`::
(long)
The time, in milliseconds, when the snapshot creation process started.

`end_time`::
(string)
Date timestamp of when the snapshot creation process ended.

`end_time_in_millis`::
(long)
The time, in milliseconds, when the snapshot creation process ended.

`duration_in_millis`::
(long)
How long, in milliseconds, it took to create the snapshot.

[[get-snapshot-api-response-failures]]
`failures`::
(array)
Lists any failures that occurred when creating the snapshot.

`shards`::
(object)
Contains a count of shards in the snapshot.
+
.Properties of `shards`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`total`::
(integer)
Total number of shards included in the snapshot.

`successful`::
(integer)
Number of shards that were successfully included in the snapshot.

`failed`::
(integer)
Number of shards that failed to be included in the snapshot.
====

`state`::
+
--
(string)
The snapshot `state` can be one of the following values:

.Values for `state`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`IN_PROGRESS`::
  The snapshot is currently running.

`SUCCESS`::
  The snapshot finished and all shards were stored successfully.

`FAILED`::
  The snapshot finished with an error and failed to store any data.

`PARTIAL`::
  The global cluster state was stored, but data of at least one shard was not stored successfully.
  The <<get-snapshot-api-response-failures,`failures`>> section of the response contains more detailed information about shards
  that were not processed correctly.
====
--
`next`::
(string)
If the request contained a size limit and there might be more results, a `next` field will be added to the response and can be used as the
`after` query parameter to fetch additional results.

`total`::
(integer)
The total number of snapshots that match the request when ignoring size limit or `after` query parameter.

`remaining`::
(integer)
The number of remaining snapshots that were not returned due to size limits and that can be fetched by additional requests using the `next`
field value.

[[get-snapshot-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

The following request returns information for `snapshot_2` in the `my_repository` repository.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_2
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_2",
      "uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "total": 1,
  "remaining": 0
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]

The following request returns information for all snapshots with prefix `snapshot` in the `my_repository` repository,
limiting the response size to 2 and sorting by snapshot name.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot*?size=2&sort=name
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_1",
      "uuid": "dKb54xw67gvdRctLCxSket",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_2",
      "uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628851,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752019,
      "duration_in_millis": 1,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      },
    }
  ],
  "next": "c25hcHNob3RfMixteV9yZXBvc2l0b3J5LHNuYXBzaG90XzI=",
  "total": 3,
  "remaining": 1
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "dKb54xw67gvdRctLCxSket"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.1.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.1.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628851/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.1.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.1.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752019/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.1.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 1/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.1.duration_in_millis/]

A subsequent request for the remaining snapshots can then be made using the `next` value from the previous response as `after` parameter.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot*?size=2&sort=name&after=c25hcHNob3RfMixteV9yZXBvc2l0b3J5LHNuYXBzaG90XzI=
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_3",
      "uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "total": 3,
  "remaining": 0
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]

Alternatively, the same result could be retrieved by using an offset value of `2` to skip the two snapshot already seen.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot*?size=2&sort=name&offset=2
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_3",
      "uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "total": 3,
  "remaining": 0
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]

Commit message:

Implement Sort By Repository Name in Get Snapshots API
This one is the last sort column not yet implemented but used by Kibana.

docs/reference/snapshot-restore/apis/get-snapshot-api.asciidoc, after:

[[get-snapshot-api]]
=== Get snapshot API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get snapshot</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieves information about one or more snapshots.

////
[source,console]
----
PUT /_snapshot/my_repository
{
  "type": "fs",
  "settings": {
    "location": "my_backup_location"
  }
}

PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/my_snapshot?wait_for_completion=true

PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_1?wait_for_completion=true
PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_2?wait_for_completion=true
PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_3?wait_for_completion=true
----
// TESTSETUP
////

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/my_snapshot
----

[[get-snapshot-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_snapshot/<repository>/<snapshot>`

[[get-snapshot-api-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the
`monitor_snapshot`, `create_snapshot`, or `manage`
<<privileges-list-cluster,cluster privilege>> to use this API.

[[get-snapshot-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

Use the get snapshot API to return information about one or more snapshots, including:

* Start and end time values
* Version of {es} that created the snapshot
* List of included indices
* Current state of the snapshot
* List of failures that occurred during the snapshot

[[get-snapshot-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<repository>`::
(Required, string)
Comma-separated list of snapshot repository names used to limit the request.
Wildcard (`*`) expressions are supported.
+
To get information about all snapshot repositories registered in the
cluster, omit this parameter or use `*` or `_all`.

`<snapshot>`::
(Required, string)
Comma-separated list of snapshot names to retrieve. Also accepts wildcards (`*`).
+
* To get information about all snapshots in a registered repository, use a wildcard (`*`) or `_all`.
* To get information about any snapshots that are currently running, use `_current`.
+
NOTE: Using `_all` in a request fails if any snapshots are unavailable.
Set <<get-snapshot-api-ignore-unavailable,`ignore_unavailable`>> to `true` to return only available snapshots.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[get-snapshot-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=master-timeout]

[[get-snapshot-api-ignore-unavailable]]
`ignore_unavailable`::
(Optional, Boolean)
If `false`, the request returns an error for any snapshots that are unavailable. Defaults to `false`.
+
If `true`, the request ignores snapshots that are unavailable, such as those that are corrupted or temporarily cannot be returned.

`verbose`::
(Optional, Boolean)
If `true`, returns additional information about each snapshot such as the
version of Elasticsearch which took the snapshot, the start and end times of
the snapshot, and the number of shards snapshotted. Defaults to `true`. If
`false`, omits the additional information.

`index_details`::
(Optional, Boolean)
If `true`, returns additional information about each index in the snapshot
comprising the number of shards in the index, the total size of the index in
bytes, and the maximum number of segments per shard in the index. Defaults to
`false`, meaning that this information is omitted.

`sort`::
(Optional, string)
Allows setting a sort order for the result. Defaults to `start_time`, i.e. sorting by snapshot start time stamp.
+
.Valid values for `sort`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`start_time`::
  Sort snapshots by their start time stamp and break ties by snapshot name.

`duration`::
  Sort snapshots by their duration and break ties by snapshot name.

`name`::
  Sort snapshots by their name.

`repository`::
  Sort snapshots by their repository name and break ties by snapshot name.

`index_count`::
  Sort snapshots by the number of indices they contain and break ties by snapshot name.

`shard_count`::
  Sort snapshots by the number of shards they contain and break ties by snapshot name.

`failed_shard_count`::
  Sort snapshots by the number of shards that they failed to snapshot and break ties by snapshot name.
====

`size`::
(Optional, integer)
 Maximum number of snapshots to return. Defaults to `0` which means return all that match the request without limit.

`order`::
(Optional, string)
Sort order. Valid values are `asc` for ascending and `desc` for descending order. Defaults to `asc`, meaning ascending order.

`after`::
(Optional, string)
Offset identifier to start pagination from as returned by the `next` field in the response body.

`offset`::
(Optional, integer)
Numeric offset to start pagination from based on the snapshots matching this request. Using a non-zero value for this parameter is mutually
exclusive with using the `after` parameter. Defaults to `0`.

NOTE: The `after` parameter and `next` field allow for iterating through snapshots with some consistency guarantees regarding concurrent
creation or deletion of snapshots. It is guaranteed that  any snapshot that exists at the beginning of the iteration and not concurrently
deleted will be seen during the iteration. Snapshots concurrently created may be seen during an iteration.

NOTE: The pagination parameters `size`, `order`, `after`, `offset` and `sort` are not supported when using `verbose=false` and the sort
order for requests with `verbose=false` is undefined.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[get-snapshot-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

`snapshot`::
(string)
Name of the snapshot.

`uuid`::
(string)
Universally unique identifier (UUID) of the snapshot.

`version_id`::
(int)
Build ID of the {es} version used to create the snapshot.

`version`::
(float)
{es} version used to create the snapshot.

`indices`::
(array)
List of indices included in the snapshot.

`index_details`::
(object)
Details of each index in the snapshot, keyed by index name. Only present if the
`?index_details` query parameter is set, and only contains details for indices
that were completely snapshotted in a sufficiently recent version of {es}.
+
.Properties of `index_details`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`shard_count`::
(integer)
Number of shards in this index.

`size`::
(string)
Total size of all shards in this index. Only present if the `?human` query
paramter is set.

`size_in_bytes`::
(long)
Total size of all shards in this index, in bytes.

`max_segments_per_shard`::
(integer)
Maximum number of segments per shard in this index snapshot.
====

`data_streams`::
(array)
List of <<data-streams,data streams>> included in the snapshot.

`include_global_state`::
(Boolean)
Indicates whether the current cluster state is included in the snapshot.

[[get-snapshot-api-feature-states]]
`feature_states`::
(array)
List of feature states which were included when the snapshot was taken,
including the list of system indices included as part of the feature state. The
`feature_name` field of each can be used in the `feature_states` parameter when
restoring the snapshot to restore a subset of feature states. Only present if
the snapshot includes one or more feature states.

`start_time`::
(string)
Date timestamp of when the snapshot creation process started.

`start_time_in_millis`::
(long)
The time, in milliseconds, when the snapshot creation process started.

`end_time`::
(string)
Date timestamp of when the snapshot creation process ended.

`end_time_in_millis`::
(long)
The time, in milliseconds, when the snapshot creation process ended.

`duration_in_millis`::
(long)
How long, in milliseconds, it took to create the snapshot.

[[get-snapshot-api-response-failures]]
`failures`::
(array)
Lists any failures that occurred when creating the snapshot.

`shards`::
(object)
Contains a count of shards in the snapshot.
+
.Properties of `shards`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`total`::
(integer)
Total number of shards included in the snapshot.

`successful`::
(integer)
Number of shards that were successfully included in the snapshot.

`failed`::
(integer)
Number of shards that failed to be included in the snapshot.
====

`state`::
+
--
(string)
The snapshot `state` can be one of the following values:

.Values for `state`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`IN_PROGRESS`::
  The snapshot is currently running.

`SUCCESS`::
  The snapshot finished and all shards were stored successfully.

`FAILED`::
  The snapshot finished with an error and failed to store any data.

`PARTIAL`::
  The global cluster state was stored, but data of at least one shard was not stored successfully.
  The <<get-snapshot-api-response-failures,`failures`>> section of the response contains more detailed information about shards
  that were not processed correctly.
====
--
`next`::
(string)
If the request contained a size limit and there might be more results, a `next` field will be added to the response and can be used as the
`after` query parameter to fetch additional results.

`total`::
(integer)
The total number of snapshots that match the request when ignoring size limit or `after` query parameter.

`remaining`::
(integer)
The number of remaining snapshots that were not returned due to size limits and that can be fetched by additional requests using the `next`
field value.

[[get-snapshot-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

The following request returns information for `snapshot_2` in the `my_repository` repository.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot_2
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_2",
      "uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "total": 1,
  "remaining": 0
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]

The following request returns information for all snapshots with prefix `snapshot` in the `my_repository` repository,
limiting the response size to 2 and sorting by snapshot name.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot*?size=2&sort=name
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_1",
      "uuid": "dKb54xw67gvdRctLCxSket",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_2",
      "uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628851,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752019,
      "duration_in_millis": 1,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      },
    }
  ],
  "next": "c25hcHNob3RfMixteV9yZXBvc2l0b3J5LHNuYXBzaG90XzI=",
  "total": 3,
  "remaining": 1
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "dKb54xw67gvdRctLCxSket"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "vdRctLCxSketdKb54xw67g"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.1.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.1.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628851/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.1.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.130Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.1.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752019/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.1.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 1/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.1.duration_in_millis/]

A subsequent request for the remaining snapshots can then be made using the `next` value from the previous response as `after` parameter.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot*?size=2&sort=name&after=c25hcHNob3RfMixteV9yZXBvc2l0b3J5LHNuYXBzaG90XzI=
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_3",
      "uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "total": 3,
  "remaining": 0
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]

Alternatively, the same result could be retrieved by using an offset value of `2` to skip the two snapshot already seen.

[source,console]
----
GET /_snapshot/my_repository/snapshot*?size=2&sort=name&offset=2
----

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "snapshots": [
    {
      "snapshot": "snapshot_3",
      "uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket",
      "repository": "my_repository",
      "version_id": <version_id>,
      "version": <version>,
      "indices": [],
      "data_streams": [],
      "feature_states": [],
      "include_global_state": true,
      "state": "SUCCESS",
      "start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850,
      "end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z",
      "end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018,
      "duration_in_millis": 0,
      "failures": [],
      "shards": {
        "total": 0,
        "failed": 0,
        "successful": 0
      }
    }
  ],
  "total": 3,
  "remaining": 0
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"uuid": "dRctdKb54xw67gvLCxSket"/"uuid": $body.snapshots.0.uuid/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version_id": <version_id>/"version_id": $body.snapshots.0.version_id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"version": <version>/"version": $body.snapshots.0.version/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"start_time": $body.snapshots.0.start_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"start_time_in_millis": 1593093628850/"start_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time": "2020-07-06T21:55:18.129Z"/"end_time": $body.snapshots.0.end_time/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"end_time_in_millis": 1593094752018/"end_time_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.end_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"duration_in_millis": 0/"duration_in_millis": $body.snapshots.0.duration_in_millis/]
