docs/reference/settings/notification-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[notification-settings]]
=== {watcher} Settings in Elasticsearch
++++
<titleabbrev>{watcher} Settings</titleabbrev>
++++

You configure {watcher} settings to set up {watcher} and send notifications via
<<email-notification-settings,email>>,
<<hipchat-notification-settings,HipChat>>,
<<slack-notification-settings,Slack>>, and
<<pagerduty-notification-settings, PagerDuty>>.

All of these settings can be added to the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file,
with the exception of the secure settings, which you add to the {es} keystore.
For more information about creating and updating the {es} keystore, see
<<secure-settings>>.

[float]
[[general-notification-settings]]
==== General Watcher Settings
`xpack.watcher.enabled`::
Set to `false` to disable {watcher} on the node.

`xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data`::
Set to `true` to encrypt sensitive data. If this setting is enabled, you
must also specify the `xpack.watcher.encryption_key` setting. For more
information, see
{xpack-ref}/encrypting-data.html[Encrypting sensitive data in {watcher}].

`xpack.watcher.encryption_key` (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Specifies the path to a file that contains a key for encrypting sensitive data.
If `xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data` is set to `true`, this setting is
required. For more information, see
{xpack-ref}/encrypting-data.html[Encrypting sensitive data in {watcher}].

`xpack.watcher.history.cleaner_service.enabled`::
added[6.3.0,Default changed to `true`.]
+
Set to `true` (default) to enable the cleaner service. If this setting is
`true`, the `xpack.monitoring.enabled` setting must also be set to `true` with
a local exporter enabled. The cleaner service removes previous versions of
{watcher} indices (for example, `.watcher-history*`) when it determines that
they are old. The duration of {watcher} indices is determined by the
`xpack.monitoring.history.duration` setting, which defaults to 7 days. For
more information about that setting, see <<monitoring-settings>>.

`xpack.http.proxy.host`::
Specifies the address of the proxy server to use to connect to HTTP services.

`xpack.http.proxy.port`::
Specifies the port number to use to connect to the proxy server.

`xpack.http.default_connection_timeout`::
The maximum period to wait until abortion of the request, when a
connection is being initiated.

`xpack.http.default_read_timeout`::
The maximum period of inactivity between two data packets, before the
request is aborted.

`xpack.http.max_response_size`::
Specifies the maximum size an HTTP response is allowed to have, defaults to
`10mb`, the maximum configurable value is `50mb`.

[[ssl-notification-settings]]
:ssl-prefix:             xpack.http
:component:              {watcher}
:verifies:
:server!:

include::ssl-settings.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[email-notification-settings]]
==== Email Notification Settings
You can configure the following email notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via email, see {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#configuring-email-actions[Configuring Email].

`xpack.notification.email.account`::
Specifies account information for sending notifications via email. You
can specify the following email account attributes:

[[email-account-attributes]]
  `profile`;;
  The {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#configuring-email[email profile] to use to build the MIME
  messages that are sent from the account. Valid values: `standard`, `gmail` and
  `outlook`. Defaults to `standard`.

  `email_defaults.*`;;
  An optional set of email attributes to use as defaults
  for the emails sent from the account. See {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#email-action-attributes[
  Email Action Attributes] for the supported attributes.

  `smtp.auth`;;
  Set to `true` to attempt to authenticate the user using the
  AUTH command. Defaults to `false`.

  `smtp.host`;;
  The SMTP server to connect to. Required.

  `smtp.port`;;
  The SMTP server port to connect to. Defaults to 25.

  `smtp.user`;;
  The user name for SMTP. Required.

  `smtp.password`;;
  The password for the specified SMTP user.

  `smtp.starttls.enable`;;
  Set to `true` to enable the use of the `STARTTLS`
  command (if supported by the server) to switch the connection to a
  TLS-protected connection before issuing any login commands. Note that
  an appropriate trust store must configured so that the client will
  trust the server's certificate. Defaults to `false`.

  `smtp.starttls.required`;;
  If `true`, then `STARTTLS` will be required. If that command fails, the
  connection will fail. Defaults to `false`.

  `smtp.timeout`;;
  The socket read timeout. Default is two minutes.

  `smtp.connection_timeout`;;
  The socket connection timeout. Default is two minutes.

  `smtp.write_timeout`;;
  The socket write timeout. Default is two minutes.

  `smtp.local_address`;;
  A configurable local address when sending emails. Not configured by default.

  `smtp.local_port`;;
  A configurable local port when sending emails. Not configured by default.

  `smtp.send_partial`;;
  Send an email, despite one of the receiver addresses being invalid.

  `smtp.wait_on_quit`;;
  If set to false the QUIT command is sent and the connection closed. If set to
  true, the QUIT command is sent and a reply is waited for. True by default.

`xpack.notification.email.html.sanitization.allow`::
Specifies the HTML elements that are allowed in email notifications. For
more information, see {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#email-html-sanitization[Configuring HTML
Sanitization Options]. You can specify individual HTML elements
and the following HTML feature groups:

[[html-feature-groups]]
  `_tables`;;
  All table related elements: `<table>`, `<th>`, `<tr>`
                      and `<td>`.

  `_blocks`;;
  The following block elements: `<p>`, `<div>`, `<h1>`,
                      `<h2>`, `<h3>`, `<h4>`, `<h5>`, `<h6>`, `<ul>`, `<ol>`,
                      `<li>`, and `<blockquote>`.

  `_formatting`;;
  The following inline formatting elements: `<b>`, `<i>`,
                      `<s>`, `<u>`, `<o>`, `<sup>`, `<sub>`, `<ins>`, `<del>`,
                      `<strong>`, `<strike>`, `<tt>`, `<code>`, `<big>`,
                      `<small>`, `<br>`, `<span>`, and `<em>`.

  `_links`;;
  The `<a>` element with an `href` attribute that points
                      to a URL using the following protocols: `http`, `https`
                      and `mailto`.

  `_styles`;;
  The `style` attribute on all elements. Note that CSS
                      attributes are also sanitized to prevent XSS attacks.

  `img`;;
  `img:all`;;
  All images (external and embedded).

  `img:embedded`;;
  Only embedded images. Embedded images can only use the
                    `cid:` URL protocol in their `src` attribute.

`xpack.notification.email.html.sanitization.disallow`::
Specifies the HTML elements that are NOT allowed in email notifications.
You can specify individual HTML elements and <<html-feature-groups,
HTML feature groups>>.

`xpack.notification.email.html.sanitization.enabled` ::
Set to `false` to completely disable HTML sanitation. Not recommended.
Defaults to `true`.

[float]
[[hipchat-notification-settings]]
==== HipChat Notification Settings
You can configure the following HipChat notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via HipChat, see {xpack-ref}/actions-hipchat.html#configuring-hipchat-actions[Configuring HipChat].

`xpack.notification.hipchat` ::
Specifies account information for sending notifications
via HipChat. You can specify the following HipChat account attributes:

[[hipchat-account-attributes]]
  `profile`;;
  The HipChat account profile to use: `integration`,
                      `user`, or `v1`. Required.

  `auth_token`;;
  The authentication token to use to access
                      the HipChat API. Required.

  `host`;;
  The HipChat server hostname. Defaults to `api.hipchat.com`.

  `port`;;
  The HipChat server port number. Defaults to 443.

  `room`;;
  The room you want to send messages to. Must be specified
                      if the `profile` is set to `integration`. Not valid for
                      the `user` or `vi` profiles.

  `user`;;
  The HipChat user account to use to send messages.
                      Specified as an email address. Must be specified if the
                      `profile` is set to `user`. Not valid for the `integration`
                      or `v1` profiles.

  `message.format`;;
  The format of the message: `text` or `html`.
                      Defaults to `html`.

  `message.color`;;
  The background color of the notification in the room.
                      Defaults to  `yellow`.
  `message.notify`;;
  Indicates whether people in the room should be
                      actively notified. Defaults to `false`.


[float]
[[slack-notification-settings]]
==== Slack Notification Settings
You can configure the following Slack notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via Slack, see  {xpack-ref}/actions-slack.html#configuring-slack-actions[Configuring Slack].

`xpack.notification.slack` ::
Specifies account information for sending notifications
via Slack. You can specify the following Slack account attributes:

[[slack-account-attributes]]

  `url`;;
  The Incoming Webhook URL to use to post
                                    messages to Slack. Required.

  `message_defaults.from`;;
  The sender name to display in the
                                    Slack message. Defaults to the watch ID.

  `message_defaults.to`;;
  The default Slack channels or groups you
                                             want to send messages to.

  `message_defaults.icon`;;
  The icon to display in the Slack messages.
                                             Overrides the incoming webhook's configured
                                             icon. Accepts a public URL to an image.

  `message_defaults.text`;;
  The default message content.

  `message_defaults.attachment`;;
  Default message attachments. Slack message attachments
                                    enable you to create more richly-formatted messages.
                                    Specified as an array as defined in the
                                    https://api.slack.com/docs/attachments[
                                   Slack attachments documentation].


[float]
[[jira-notification-settings]]
==== Jira Notification Settings
You can configure the following Jira notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about using notifications
to create issues in Jira, see  {xpack-ref}/actions-jira.html#configuring-jira-actions[Configuring Jira].

`xpack.notification.jira` ::
Specifies account information for using notifications to create
issues in Jira. You can specify the following Jira account attributes:

[[jira-account-attributes]]

  `url`;;
  The URL of the Jira Software server. Required.

  `user`;;
  The name of the user to connect to the Jira Software server. Required.

  `password`;;
  The password of the user to connect to the Jira Software server. Required.

  `issue_defaults`;;
  Default fields values for the issue created in Jira. See
  {xpack-ref}/actions-jira.html#jira-action-attributes[Jira Action Attributes] for more information.
  Optional.


[float]
[[pagerduty-notification-settings]]
==== PagerDuty Notification Settings
You can configure the following PagerDuty notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via PagerDuty, see  {xpack-ref}/actions-pagerduty.html#configuring-pagerduty-actions[Configuring PagerDuty].


[[pagerduty-account-attributes]]
`xpack.notification.pagerduty`::
Specifies account information for sending notifications
via PagerDuty. You can specify the following PagerDuty account attributes:

  `name`;;
  A name for the PagerDuty account associated with the API key you
  are using to access PagerDuty. Required.

  `service_api_key`;;
   The https://developer.pagerduty.com/documentation/rest/authentication[
   PagerDuty API key] to use to access PagerDuty. Required.


  `event_defaults`;;
  Default values for  {xpack-ref}/actions-pagerduty.html#pagerduty-event-trigger-incident-attributes[
  PagerDuty event attributes]. Optional.

        `description`::
        A string that contains the default description for PagerDuty events.
        If no default is configured, each PagerDuty action must specify a
        `description`.

        `incident_key`::
        A string that contains the default incident key to use when sending
        PagerDuty events.

        `client`::
        A string that specifies the default monitoring client.

        `client_url`::
        The URL of the default monitoring client.

        `event_type`::
        The default event type. Valid values: `trigger`,`resolve`, `acknowledge`.

        `attach_payload`::
        Whether or not to provide the watch payload as context for
        the event by default. Valid values: `true`, `false`.

Commit message:

Document smtp.ssl.trust configuration option
This adds documentation for `smtp.ssl.trust` that was reintroduced
in #31684 in 6.3.2.

Resolves #32936

docs/reference/settings/notification-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[notification-settings]]
=== {watcher} Settings in Elasticsearch
++++
<titleabbrev>{watcher} Settings</titleabbrev>
++++

You configure {watcher} settings to set up {watcher} and send notifications via
<<email-notification-settings,email>>,
<<hipchat-notification-settings,HipChat>>,
<<slack-notification-settings,Slack>>, and
<<pagerduty-notification-settings, PagerDuty>>.

All of these settings can be added to the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file,
with the exception of the secure settings, which you add to the {es} keystore.
For more information about creating and updating the {es} keystore, see
<<secure-settings>>.

[float]
[[general-notification-settings]]
==== General Watcher Settings
`xpack.watcher.enabled`::
Set to `false` to disable {watcher} on the node.

`xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data`::
Set to `true` to encrypt sensitive data. If this setting is enabled, you
must also specify the `xpack.watcher.encryption_key` setting. For more
information, see
{xpack-ref}/encrypting-data.html[Encrypting sensitive data in {watcher}].

`xpack.watcher.encryption_key` (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Specifies the path to a file that contains a key for encrypting sensitive data.
If `xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data` is set to `true`, this setting is
required. For more information, see
{xpack-ref}/encrypting-data.html[Encrypting sensitive data in {watcher}].

`xpack.watcher.history.cleaner_service.enabled`::
added[6.3.0,Default changed to `true`.]
+
Set to `true` (default) to enable the cleaner service. If this setting is
`true`, the `xpack.monitoring.enabled` setting must also be set to `true` with
a local exporter enabled. The cleaner service removes previous versions of
{watcher} indices (for example, `.watcher-history*`) when it determines that
they are old. The duration of {watcher} indices is determined by the
`xpack.monitoring.history.duration` setting, which defaults to 7 days. For
more information about that setting, see <<monitoring-settings>>.

`xpack.http.proxy.host`::
Specifies the address of the proxy server to use to connect to HTTP services.

`xpack.http.proxy.port`::
Specifies the port number to use to connect to the proxy server.

`xpack.http.default_connection_timeout`::
The maximum period to wait until abortion of the request, when a
connection is being initiated.

`xpack.http.default_read_timeout`::
The maximum period of inactivity between two data packets, before the
request is aborted.

`xpack.http.max_response_size`::
Specifies the maximum size an HTTP response is allowed to have, defaults to
`10mb`, the maximum configurable value is `50mb`.

[[ssl-notification-settings]]
:ssl-prefix:             xpack.http
:component:              {watcher}
:verifies:
:server!:

include::ssl-settings.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[email-notification-settings]]
==== Email Notification Settings
You can configure the following email notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via email, see {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#configuring-email-actions[Configuring Email].

`xpack.notification.email.account`::
Specifies account information for sending notifications via email. You
can specify the following email account attributes:

[[email-account-attributes]]
  `profile`;;
  The {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#configuring-email[email profile] to use to build the MIME
  messages that are sent from the account. Valid values: `standard`, `gmail` and
  `outlook`. Defaults to `standard`.

  `email_defaults.*`;;
  An optional set of email attributes to use as defaults
  for the emails sent from the account. See {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#email-action-attributes[
  Email Action Attributes] for the supported attributes.

  `smtp.auth`;;
  Set to `true` to attempt to authenticate the user using the
  AUTH command. Defaults to `false`.

  `smtp.host`;;
  The SMTP server to connect to. Required.

  `smtp.port`;;
  The SMTP server port to connect to. Defaults to 25.

  `smtp.user`;;
  The user name for SMTP. Required.

  `smtp.password`;;
  The password for the specified SMTP user.

  `smtp.starttls.enable`;;
  Set to `true` to enable the use of the `STARTTLS`
  command (if supported by the server) to switch the connection to a
  TLS-protected connection before issuing any login commands. Note that
  an appropriate trust store must configured so that the client will
  trust the server's certificate. Defaults to `false`.

  `smtp.starttls.required`;;
  If `true`, then `STARTTLS` will be required. If that command fails, the
  connection will fail. Defaults to `false`.

  `smtp.ssl.trust`;;
  A list of SMTP server hosts that are assumed trusted and for which
  certificate verification is disabled. If set to "*", all hosts are
  trusted. If set to a whitespace separated list of hosts, those hosts
  are trusted. Otherwise, trust depends on the certificate the server
  presents.

  `smtp.timeout`;;
  The socket read timeout. Default is two minutes.

  `smtp.connection_timeout`;;
  The socket connection timeout. Default is two minutes.

  `smtp.write_timeout`;;
  The socket write timeout. Default is two minutes.

  `smtp.local_address`;;
  A configurable local address when sending emails. Not configured by default.

  `smtp.local_port`;;
  A configurable local port when sending emails. Not configured by default.

  `smtp.send_partial`;;
  Send an email, despite one of the receiver addresses being invalid.

  `smtp.wait_on_quit`;;
  If set to false the QUIT command is sent and the connection closed. If set to
  true, the QUIT command is sent and a reply is waited for. True by default.

`xpack.notification.email.html.sanitization.allow`::
Specifies the HTML elements that are allowed in email notifications. For
more information, see {xpack-ref}/actions-email.html#email-html-sanitization[Configuring HTML
Sanitization Options]. You can specify individual HTML elements
and the following HTML feature groups:

[[html-feature-groups]]
  `_tables`;;
  All table related elements: `<table>`, `<th>`, `<tr>`
                      and `<td>`.

  `_blocks`;;
  The following block elements: `<p>`, `<div>`, `<h1>`,
                      `<h2>`, `<h3>`, `<h4>`, `<h5>`, `<h6>`, `<ul>`, `<ol>`,
                      `<li>`, and `<blockquote>`.

  `_formatting`;;
  The following inline formatting elements: `<b>`, `<i>`,
                      `<s>`, `<u>`, `<o>`, `<sup>`, `<sub>`, `<ins>`, `<del>`,
                      `<strong>`, `<strike>`, `<tt>`, `<code>`, `<big>`,
                      `<small>`, `<br>`, `<span>`, and `<em>`.

  `_links`;;
  The `<a>` element with an `href` attribute that points
                      to a URL using the following protocols: `http`, `https`
                      and `mailto`.

  `_styles`;;
  The `style` attribute on all elements. Note that CSS
                      attributes are also sanitized to prevent XSS attacks.

  `img`;;
  `img:all`;;
  All images (external and embedded).

  `img:embedded`;;
  Only embedded images. Embedded images can only use the
                    `cid:` URL protocol in their `src` attribute.

`xpack.notification.email.html.sanitization.disallow`::
Specifies the HTML elements that are NOT allowed in email notifications.
You can specify individual HTML elements and <<html-feature-groups,
HTML feature groups>>.

`xpack.notification.email.html.sanitization.enabled` ::
Set to `false` to completely disable HTML sanitation. Not recommended.
Defaults to `true`.

[float]
[[hipchat-notification-settings]]
==== HipChat Notification Settings
You can configure the following HipChat notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via HipChat, see {xpack-ref}/actions-hipchat.html#configuring-hipchat-actions[Configuring HipChat].

`xpack.notification.hipchat` ::
Specifies account information for sending notifications
via HipChat. You can specify the following HipChat account attributes:

[[hipchat-account-attributes]]
  `profile`;;
  The HipChat account profile to use: `integration`,
                      `user`, or `v1`. Required.

  `auth_token`;;
  The authentication token to use to access
                      the HipChat API. Required.

  `host`;;
  The HipChat server hostname. Defaults to `api.hipchat.com`.

  `port`;;
  The HipChat server port number. Defaults to 443.

  `room`;;
  The room you want to send messages to. Must be specified
                      if the `profile` is set to `integration`. Not valid for
                      the `user` or `vi` profiles.

  `user`;;
  The HipChat user account to use to send messages.
                      Specified as an email address. Must be specified if the
                      `profile` is set to `user`. Not valid for the `integration`
                      or `v1` profiles.

  `message.format`;;
  The format of the message: `text` or `html`.
                      Defaults to `html`.

  `message.color`;;
  The background color of the notification in the room.
                      Defaults to  `yellow`.
  `message.notify`;;
  Indicates whether people in the room should be
                      actively notified. Defaults to `false`.


[float]
[[slack-notification-settings]]
==== Slack Notification Settings
You can configure the following Slack notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via Slack, see  {xpack-ref}/actions-slack.html#configuring-slack-actions[Configuring Slack].

`xpack.notification.slack` ::
Specifies account information for sending notifications
via Slack. You can specify the following Slack account attributes:

[[slack-account-attributes]]

  `url`;;
  The Incoming Webhook URL to use to post
                                    messages to Slack. Required.

  `message_defaults.from`;;
  The sender name to display in the
                                    Slack message. Defaults to the watch ID.

  `message_defaults.to`;;
  The default Slack channels or groups you
                                             want to send messages to.

  `message_defaults.icon`;;
  The icon to display in the Slack messages.
                                             Overrides the incoming webhook's configured
                                             icon. Accepts a public URL to an image.

  `message_defaults.text`;;
  The default message content.

  `message_defaults.attachment`;;
  Default message attachments. Slack message attachments
                                    enable you to create more richly-formatted messages.
                                    Specified as an array as defined in the
                                    https://api.slack.com/docs/attachments[
                                   Slack attachments documentation].


[float]
[[jira-notification-settings]]
==== Jira Notification Settings
You can configure the following Jira notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about using notifications
to create issues in Jira, see  {xpack-ref}/actions-jira.html#configuring-jira-actions[Configuring Jira].

`xpack.notification.jira` ::
Specifies account information for using notifications to create
issues in Jira. You can specify the following Jira account attributes:

[[jira-account-attributes]]

  `url`;;
  The URL of the Jira Software server. Required.

  `user`;;
  The name of the user to connect to the Jira Software server. Required.

  `password`;;
  The password of the user to connect to the Jira Software server. Required.

  `issue_defaults`;;
  Default fields values for the issue created in Jira. See
  {xpack-ref}/actions-jira.html#jira-action-attributes[Jira Action Attributes] for more information.
  Optional.


[float]
[[pagerduty-notification-settings]]
==== PagerDuty Notification Settings
You can configure the following PagerDuty notification settings in
`elasticsearch.yml`. For more information about sending notifications
via PagerDuty, see  {xpack-ref}/actions-pagerduty.html#configuring-pagerduty-actions[Configuring PagerDuty].


[[pagerduty-account-attributes]]
`xpack.notification.pagerduty`::
Specifies account information for sending notifications
via PagerDuty. You can specify the following PagerDuty account attributes:

  `name`;;
  A name for the PagerDuty account associated with the API key you
  are using to access PagerDuty. Required.

  `service_api_key`;;
   The https://developer.pagerduty.com/documentation/rest/authentication[
   PagerDuty API key] to use to access PagerDuty. Required.


  `event_defaults`;;
  Default values for  {xpack-ref}/actions-pagerduty.html#pagerduty-event-trigger-incident-attributes[
  PagerDuty event attributes]. Optional.

        `description`::
        A string that contains the default description for PagerDuty events.
        If no default is configured, each PagerDuty action must specify a
        `description`.

        `incident_key`::
        A string that contains the default incident key to use when sending
        PagerDuty events.

        `client`::
        A string that specifies the default monitoring client.

        `client_url`::
        The URL of the default monitoring client.

        `event_type`::
        The default event type. Valid values: `trigger`,`resolve`, `acknowledge`.

        `attach_payload`::
        Whether or not to provide the watch payload as context for
        the event by default. Valid values: `true`, `false`.
