docs/reference/settings/ssl-settings.asciidoc, before:


==== {component} TLS/SSL Settings
You can configure the following TLS/SSL settings. If the settings are not configured,
the {ref}/security-settings.html#ssl-tls-settings[Default TLS/SSL Settings]
are used.

ifdef::server[]
+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.enabled+::
Used to enable or disable TLS/SSL. The default is `false`.
endif::server[]

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.supported_protocols+::
Supported protocols with versions. Valid protocols: `SSLv2Hello`,
`SSLv3`, `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`. Defaults to `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.1`,
`TLSv1`. Defaults to the value of `xpack.ssl.supported_protocols`.

ifdef::server[]
+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.client_authentication+::
Controls the server's behavior in regard to requesting a certificate
from client connections. Valid values are `required`, `optional`, and `none`.
`required` forces a client to present a certificate, while `optional`
requests a client certificate but the client is not required to present one.
ifndef::client-auth-default[]
Defaults to the value of `xpack.ssl.client_authentication`.
endif::client-auth-default[]
ifdef::client-auth-default[]
Defaults to +{client-auth-default}+.
endif::client-auth-default[]
endif::server[]

ifdef::verifies[]
+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.verification_mode+::
Controls the verification of certificates. Valid values are `none`,
`certificate`, and `full`.
See <<ssl-tls-settings, `xpack.ssl.verification_mode`>> for a description of these values.
Defaults to the value of `xpack.ssl.verification_mode`.
endif::verifies[]

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.cipher_suites+::
Supported cipher suites can be found in Oracle's http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/SunProviders.html[
Java Cryptography Architecture documentation]. Defaults to the value of
`xpack.ssl.cipher_suites`.


===== {component} TLS/SSL Key and Trusted Certificate Settings

The following settings are used to specify a private key, certificate, and the
trusted certificates that should be used when communicating over an SSL/TLS connection.
ifdef::server[]
A private key and certificate must be configured.
endif::server[]
ifndef::server[]
A private key and certificate are optional and would be used if the server requires client authentication for PKI
authentication.
endif::server[]
If none of the settings below are specified, the {ref}/security-settings.html#ssl-tls-settings[Default TLS/SSL Settings] are used.


===== PEM Encoded Files

When using PEM encoded files, use the following settings:

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.key+::
Path to a PEM encoded file containing the private key.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.key_passphrase+::
The passphrase that is used to decrypt the private key. This value is optional
as the key might not be encrypted.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.secure_key_passphrase+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
The passphrase that is used to decrypt the private key. This value is optional
as the key might not be encrypted.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.certificate+::
Path to a PEM encoded file containing the certificate (or certificate chain)
that will be presented when requested.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.certificate_authorities+::
List of paths to the PEM encoded certificate files that should be trusted.

===== Java Keystore Files

When using Java keystore files (JKS), which contain the private key, certificate
and certificates that should be trusted, use the following settings:

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.path+::
Path to the keystore that holds the private key and certificate.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+::
Password to the keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.key_password+::
Password for the private key in the keystore. Defaults to the
same value as +{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_key_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password for the private key in the keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.path+::
Path to the truststore file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.password+::
Password to the truststore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the truststore.

===== PKCS#12 Files

{es} can be configured to use PKCS#12 container files (`.p12` or `.pfx` files)
that contain the private key, certificate and certificates that should be trusted.

PKCS#12 files are configured in the same way as Java Keystore Files:

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.path+::
Path to the PKCS#12 file that holds the private key and certificate.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS12` to indicate that the keystore is a PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.key_password+::
Password for the private key stored in the PKCS#12 file.
Defaults to the same value as +{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_key_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password for the private key stored in the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.path+::
Path to the PKCS#12 file that holds the certificates to be trusted.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS12` to indicate that the truststore is a PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.password+::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

===== PKCS#11 Tokens

{es} can be configured to use a PKCS#11 token that contains the private key,
certificate and certificates that should be trusted.

PKCS#11 token require additional configuration on the JVM level and can be enabled
via the following settings:

+{ssl-prefix}.keystore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS11` to indicate that the PKCS#11 token should be used as a keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.truststore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS11` to indicate that the PKCS#11 token should be used as a truststore.

Commit message:

Deprecate index audit output type (#37671)
This PR deprecates the index audit output.
In general, the problem with the index audit output is that event indexing
can be slower than the rate with which audit events are generated,
especially during the daily rollovers or the rolling cluster upgrades.
In this situation audit events will be lost which is a terrible failure situation
for an audit system.
Besides of the settings under the `xpack.security.audit.index` namespace, the `xpack.security.audit.outputs` setting has also been deprecated and will be
removed in 7. Although explicitly configuring the logfile output does not touch
any deprecation bits, this setting is made redundant in 7 so this PR deprecates
it as well.

Relates #29881

docs/reference/settings/ssl-settings.asciidoc, after:


==== {component} TLS/SSL Settings
ifeval::["{component}"=="Auditing"]
deprecated[6.7.0, These settings configure the client used by the index audit
output type which is deprecated and will be removed in 7.0. All the settings
under the `xpack.security.audit.index` namespace are deprecated.]
endif::[]

You can configure the following TLS/SSL settings. If the settings are not configured,
the {ref}/security-settings.html#ssl-tls-settings[Default TLS/SSL Settings]
are used.

ifdef::server[]
+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.enabled+::
Used to enable or disable TLS/SSL. The default is `false`.
endif::server[]

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.supported_protocols+::
Supported protocols with versions. Valid protocols: `SSLv2Hello`,
`SSLv3`, `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`. Defaults to `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.1`,
`TLSv1`. Defaults to the value of `xpack.ssl.supported_protocols`.

ifdef::server[]
+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.client_authentication+::
Controls the server's behavior in regard to requesting a certificate
from client connections. Valid values are `required`, `optional`, and `none`.
`required` forces a client to present a certificate, while `optional`
requests a client certificate but the client is not required to present one.
ifndef::client-auth-default[]
Defaults to the value of `xpack.ssl.client_authentication`.
endif::client-auth-default[]
ifdef::client-auth-default[]
Defaults to +{client-auth-default}+.
endif::client-auth-default[]
endif::server[]

ifdef::verifies[]
+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.verification_mode+::
Controls the verification of certificates. Valid values are `none`,
`certificate`, and `full`.
See <<ssl-tls-settings, `xpack.ssl.verification_mode`>> for a description of these values.
Defaults to the value of `xpack.ssl.verification_mode`.
endif::verifies[]

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.cipher_suites+::
Supported cipher suites can be found in Oracle's http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/SunProviders.html[
Java Cryptography Architecture documentation]. Defaults to the value of
`xpack.ssl.cipher_suites`.


===== {component} TLS/SSL Key and Trusted Certificate Settings

The following settings are used to specify a private key, certificate, and the
trusted certificates that should be used when communicating over an SSL/TLS connection.
ifdef::server[]
A private key and certificate must be configured.
endif::server[]
ifndef::server[]
A private key and certificate are optional and would be used if the server requires client authentication for PKI
authentication.
endif::server[]
If none of the settings below are specified, the {ref}/security-settings.html#ssl-tls-settings[Default TLS/SSL Settings] are used.


===== PEM Encoded Files

When using PEM encoded files, use the following settings:

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.key+::
Path to a PEM encoded file containing the private key.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.key_passphrase+::
The passphrase that is used to decrypt the private key. This value is optional
as the key might not be encrypted.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.secure_key_passphrase+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
The passphrase that is used to decrypt the private key. This value is optional
as the key might not be encrypted.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.certificate+::
Path to a PEM encoded file containing the certificate (or certificate chain)
that will be presented when requested.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.certificate_authorities+::
List of paths to the PEM encoded certificate files that should be trusted.

===== Java Keystore Files

When using Java keystore files (JKS), which contain the private key, certificate
and certificates that should be trusted, use the following settings:

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.path+::
Path to the keystore that holds the private key and certificate.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+::
Password to the keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.key_password+::
Password for the private key in the keystore. Defaults to the
same value as +{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_key_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password for the private key in the keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.path+::
Path to the truststore file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.password+::
Password to the truststore.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the truststore.

===== PKCS#12 Files

{es} can be configured to use PKCS#12 container files (`.p12` or `.pfx` files)
that contain the private key, certificate and certificates that should be trusted.

PKCS#12 files are configured in the same way as Java Keystore Files:

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.path+::
Path to the PKCS#12 file that holds the private key and certificate.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS12` to indicate that the keystore is a PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.key_password+::
Password for the private key stored in the PKCS#12 file.
Defaults to the same value as +{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.password+.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.keystore.secure_key_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password for the private key stored in the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.path+::
Path to the PKCS#12 file that holds the certificates to be trusted.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS12` to indicate that the truststore is a PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.password+::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

+{ssl-prefix}.ssl.truststore.secure_password+ (<<secure-settings,Secure>>)::
Password to the PKCS#12 file.

===== PKCS#11 Tokens

{es} can be configured to use a PKCS#11 token that contains the private key,
certificate and certificates that should be trusted.

PKCS#11 token require additional configuration on the JVM level and can be enabled
via the following settings:

+{ssl-prefix}.keystore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS11` to indicate that the PKCS#11 token should be used as a keystore.

+{ssl-prefix}.truststore.type+::
Set this to `PKCS11` to indicate that the PKCS#11 token should be used as a truststore.
