docs/reference/settings/transform-settings.asciidoc, before:


[role="xpack"]
[[transform-settings]]
=== {transforms-cap}  settings in Elasticsearch
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>{transforms-cap} settings</titleabbrev>
++++

You do not need to configure any settings to use {transforms}. It is enabled by default.

All of these settings can be added to the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file.
The dynamic settings can also be updated across a cluster with the
<<cluster-update-settings,cluster update settings API>>.

TIP: Dynamic settings take precedence over settings in the `elasticsearch.yml`
file.

[float]
[[general-transform-settings]]
==== General {transforms} settings

`node.transform`::
Set to `true` to identify the node as a _transform node_. The default is `false` if either `node.data` or `xpack.transform.enabled` is `false` for the node, and `true` otherwise. +
+
If set to `false` in `elasticsearch.yml`, the node cannot run transforms. If set to
`true` but `xpack.transform.enabled` is set to `false`, the `node.transform` setting is
ignored and the node cannot run transforms. If you want to run transforms, there must be at
least one transform node in your cluster. +
+
IMPORTANT: It is advised to use the `node.transform` setting to constrain the execution
of transforms to certain nodes instead of using `xpack.transform.enabled`.

`xpack.transform.enabled`::
Set to `true` (default) to enable {transforms} on the node. +
+
If set to `false` in `elasticsearch.yml`, the {transform} APIs are disabled on the node.
Therefore the node cannot start or administrate {transform} or receive transport (internal)
communication requests related to {transform} APIs.
+
IMPORTANT: If you want to use {transform} features in your cluster, you must have
`xpack.transform.enabled` set to `true` on all master-eligible nodes and all data nodes.
This is the default behavior.

`xpack.transform.num_transform_failure_retries` (<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>)::
The number of times that a {transform} retries when it experiences a
non-fatal error. Once the number of retries is exhausted, the {transform}
task will be marked as `failed`. The default value is `10` with a valid minimum of `0`
and maximum of `100`.
If a {transform} is already running, it will have to be restarted
to use the changed setting.

Commit message:

add a note for dedicated coordinating/master nodes

docs/reference/settings/transform-settings.asciidoc, after:


[role="xpack"]
[[transform-settings]]
=== {transforms-cap}  settings in Elasticsearch
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>{transforms-cap} settings</titleabbrev>
++++

You do not need to configure any settings to use {transforms}. It is enabled by default.

All of these settings can be added to the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file.
The dynamic settings can also be updated across a cluster with the
<<cluster-update-settings,cluster update settings API>>.

TIP: Dynamic settings take precedence over settings in the `elasticsearch.yml`
file.

[float]
[[general-transform-settings]]
==== General {transforms} settings

`node.transform`::
Set to `true` to identify the node as a _transform node_. The default is `false` if
either `node.data` or `xpack.transform.enabled` is `false` for the node, and `true` otherwise. +
+
If set to `false` in `elasticsearch.yml`, the node cannot run transforms. If set to
`true` but `xpack.transform.enabled` is set to `false`, the `node.transform` setting is
ignored and the node cannot run transforms. If you want to run transforms, there must be at
least one transform node in your cluster. +
+
IMPORTANT: It is advised to use the `node.transform` setting to constrain the execution
of transforms to certain nodes instead of using `xpack.transform.enabled`. On dedicated
coordinating nodes or dedicated master nodes, disable the node.ml role.

`xpack.transform.enabled`::
Set to `true` (default) to enable {transforms} on the node. +
+
If set to `false` in `elasticsearch.yml`, the {transform} APIs are disabled on the node.
Therefore the node cannot start or administrate {transform} or receive transport (internal)
communication requests related to {transform} APIs.
+
IMPORTANT: If you want to use {transform} features in your cluster, you must have
`xpack.transform.enabled` set to `true` on all master-eligible nodes and all data nodes.
This is the default behavior.

`xpack.transform.num_transform_failure_retries` (<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>)::
The number of times that a {transform} retries when it experiences a
non-fatal error. Once the number of retries is exhausted, the {transform}
task will be marked as `failed`. The default value is `10` with a valid minimum of `0`
and maximum of `100`.
If a {transform} is already running, it will have to be restarted
to use the changed setting.
