docs/reference/search-application/apis/search-application-search.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[search-application-search]]
=== Search Application Search

beta::[]

++++
<titleabbrev>Search Application Search</titleabbrev>
++++

Given specified query parameters, creates an Elasticsearch query to run. Any unspecified template parameters will be
assigned their default values if applicable.

[[search-application-search-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST _application/search_application/<name>/_search`

[[search-application-search-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

Requires read privileges on the backing alias of the search application.

[[search-application-search-path-params]]

[[search-application-search-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`params`::
(Optional, map of strings to objects)
Query parameters specific to this request, which will override any defaults specified in the template.

[[search-application-search-response-codes]]
==== {api-response-codes-title}

`404`::
Search Application `<name>` does not exist.

[[search-application-search-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

The following example performs a search against a search application called `my-app`:

[source,console]
----
POST _application/search_application/my-app/_search
{
  "params": {
    "value": "my first query",
    "size": 10,
    "from": 0,
    "text_fields": [
        {
            "name": "title",
            "boost": 10
        },
        {
            "name": "text",
            "boost": 1
        }
    ]
  }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]

The expected results are search results from the query that was run.

Commit message:

Update Search Application API docs to discuss warnings (#97188)
* Update Search Application API docs to discuss warnings

* Update docs/reference/search-application/apis/get-search-application.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Liam Thompson <32779855+leemthompo@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/reference/search-application/apis/search-application-search.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Liam Thompson <32779855+leemthompo@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Liam Thompson <32779855+leemthompo@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/reference/search-application/apis/search-application-search.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[search-application-search]]
=== Search Application Search

beta::[]

++++
<titleabbrev>Search Application Search</titleabbrev>
++++

Given specified query parameters, creates an Elasticsearch query to run. Any unspecified template parameters will be
assigned their default values if applicable.

If the search application has an inconsistent state between its alias and configured indices, a warning header will be returned with the response.
To resolve this inconsistent state, issue an updated <<put-search-application>> command.

[[search-application-search-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST _application/search_application/<name>/_search`

[[search-application-search-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

Requires read privileges on the backing alias of the search application.

[[search-application-search-path-params]]

[[search-application-search-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`params`::
(Optional, map of strings to objects)
Query parameters specific to this request, which will override any defaults specified in the template.

[[search-application-search-response-codes]]
==== {api-response-codes-title}

`404`::
Search Application `<name>` does not exist.

[[search-application-search-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

The following example performs a search against a search application called `my-app`:

[source,console]
----
POST _application/search_application/my-app/_search
{
  "params": {
    "value": "my first query",
    "size": 10,
    "from": 0,
    "text_fields": [
        {
            "name": "title",
            "boost": 10
        },
        {
            "name": "text",
            "boost": 1
        }
    ]
  }
}
----
// TEST[skip:TBD]

The expected results are search results from the query that was run.
