docs/reference/esql/processing-commands/rename.asciidoc, before:

[discrete]
[[esql-rename]]
=== `RENAME`

The `RENAME` processing command renames one or more columns.

**Syntax**

[source,esql]
----
RENAME old_name1 AS new_name1[, ..., old_nameN AS new_nameN]
----

*Parameters*

`old_nameX`::
The name of a column you want to rename.

`new_nameX`::
The new name of the column. If it conflicts with an existing column name,
the existing column is dropped. If multiple columns are renamed to the same
name, all but the rightmost column with the same new name are dropped.

*Description*

The `RENAME` processing command renames one or more columns. If a column with
the new name already exists, it will be replaced by the new column.

A `RENAME` with multiple column renames is equivalent to multiple sequential `RENAME` commands.

*Examples*

[source,esql]
----
include::{esql-specs}/docs.csv-spec[tag=rename]
----


Multiple columns can be renamed with a single `RENAME` command:

[source,esql]
----
include::{esql-specs}/docs.csv-spec[tag=renameMultipleColumns]
----


With multiple `RENAME` commands:

[source,esql]
----
include::{esql-specs}/docs.csv-spec[tag=renameMultipleColumnsDifferentCommands]
----

Commit message:

[8.19] ESQL: Extend `RENAME` syntax to allow a `new = old` syntax (#129212) (#129254)
* ESQL: Extend `RENAME` syntax to allow a `new = old` syntax (#129212)

This extends RENAME's grammar to allow a new syntax: `| RENAME new_name
= old_name` This is supported along the existing `... old_name AS
new_name` syntax.

Closes #129208

(cherry picked from commit 6c7730d1c908ab6c93f6d4046cb3671505bef6d8)

* Fix merging

docs/reference/esql/processing-commands/rename.asciidoc, after:

[discrete]
[[esql-rename]]
=== `RENAME`

The `RENAME` processing command renames one or more columns.

**Syntax**

[source,esql]
----
RENAME old_name1 AS new_name1[, ..., old_nameN AS new_nameN]
----

The following syntax is also supported:

[source,esql]
----
RENAME new_name1 = old_name1[, ..., new_nameN = old_nameN]
----

TIP: Both syntax options can be used interchangeably but we recommend sticking to one for consistency and readability.

*Parameters*

`old_nameX`::
The name of a column you want to rename.

`new_nameX`::
The new name of the column. If it conflicts with an existing column name,
the existing column is dropped. If multiple columns are renamed to the same
name, all but the rightmost column with the same new name are dropped.

*Description*

The `RENAME` processing command renames one or more columns. If a column with
the new name already exists, it will be replaced by the new column.

A `RENAME` with multiple column renames is equivalent to multiple sequential `RENAME` commands.

*Examples*

[source,esql]
----
include::{esql-specs}/docs.csv-spec[tag=rename]
----


Multiple columns can be renamed with a single `RENAME` command:

[source,esql]
----
include::{esql-specs}/docs.csv-spec[tag=renameMultipleColumns]
----


With multiple `RENAME` commands:

[source,esql]
----
include::{esql-specs}/docs.csv-spec[tag=renameMultipleColumnsDifferentCommands]
----
