docs/reference/migration/migrate_6_3.asciidoc, before:

[[breaking-changes-6.3]]
== Breaking changes in 6.3
++++
<titleabbrev>6.3</titleabbrev>
++++

This section discusses the changes that you need to be aware of when migrating
your application to Elasticsearch 6.3.

* <<breaking_63_api_changes>> 
* <<breaking_63_plugins_changes>>
* <<breaking_63_settings_changes>>

See also <<release-highlights>> and <<es-release-notes>>. 

[float]
[[breaking_63_api_changes]]
=== API changes

[float]
==== Suggest stats metrics deprecated

The suggest stats were previously folded into the search on the indices stats
API. As such, the `suggest` metric on the indices stats API has been a synonym
for the `search` metric. In 6.3.0, the `suggest` metric is deprecated in favor
of using `search`.

Similarly, the `suggest` index metric on the `indices` metric on the nodes stats
API has provided a response containing only an empty object since 5.0.0. In
6.3.0 this metric has been deprecated.

[float]
[[breaking_63_packaging_changes]]
=== Packaging changes

Starting with version 6.3, all of the {xpack} features ship with the default 
distribution of {es}. You no longer need to install {xpack} separately. 

==== Removal of the `x-pack` configuration directory

The <<config-files-location,config directory>>, which is defined by the 
`ES_PATH_CONF` environment variable, no longer contains an `x-pack` directory. 
By default, the files that were stored in this folder, such as the 
`log4js.properties`, `role_mapping.yml`, `roles.yml`, `users`, and `users_roles` 
files, now exist in the config directory. 

Settings such as `files.role_mapping` now default to `ES_PATH_CONF/role_mapping.yml`.
If you do not want to use the default locations, however, you must update the 
settings appropriately. See <<security-settings>>. 

[float]
[[breaking_63_plugins_changes]]
=== Plugins changes

[float]
==== GCS Repository plugin

The repository settings `application_name`, `connect_timeout` and `read_timeout`
have been deprecated and must now be specified in the client settings instead.

See {plugins}/repository-gcs-client.html#repository-gcs-client[Google Cloud Storage Client Settings].

[float]
==== Ingest Geoip Plugin

In earlier versions, database files have been stored as gzip compressed files
with the extension `.gz` to save disk space. As a consequence, database files
had to be loaded in memory. Now the default database files that are stored
uncompressed as `.mmdb` files which allows to memory-map them and save heap
memory. Any custom database files must also be stored uncompressed. Consequently,
the `database_file` property in any ingest pipelines that use the Geoip Processor
must refer to the uncompressed database files as well.

[float]
==== Using the plugin installer without a TTY

The Elasticsearch plugin installer (`elasticsearch-plugin install`) would
previously silently accept additional security permissions required by a plugin
if standard input was closed or there was no TTY attached (e.g., `docker exec
<container ID> elasticsearch-plugin install`). This silent accepting of
additional security permissions has been removed. Now, a user must deliberately
accept these permissions either by keeping standard input open and attaching a
TTY (i.e., using interactive mode to accept the permissions), or by passing the
`--batch` flag.

[float]
==== Implementing custom realms with SPI instead of XPackExtension

The legacy `XPackExtension` extension mechanism has been removed and replaced
with an SPI based extension mechanism that is installed and built as an
elasticsearch plugin. For more information about using SPI loaded security extensions in custom realms, see {stack-ov}/custom-realms.html[Integrating with other authentication systems]. 

[float]
[[breaking_63_settings_changes]]
=== Settings changes

[float]
==== Concurrency level of analyze requests

Previously, analyze requests would run on the same thread pool as indexing
requests. The `index` thread pool has been deprecated as it is no longer needed
since indexing requests are internally converted to bulk requests and run on the
`bulk` thread pool. This leaves analyze requests without a home so we added a
small thread pool called the `analyze` thread pool. This thread pool defaults to
having one thread and a queue depth of sixteen requests. This means that
previously analyze requests had a level of concurrency equal to the size of the
`index` thread pool and now they have a level of concurrency of one. For most
users we think this is fine as analyze requests are useful for debugging and so
probably do not see high concurrency. If you are impacted by this you can
increase the size of the thread pool by using the `thread_pool.analyze.size`
setting.

[float]
==== Renaming the bulk thread pool

The `bulk` thread pool has been renamed to the `write` thread pool. This change
was made to reflect the fact that this thread pool is used to execute all write
operations: single-document index/delete/update requests, as well as bulk
requests. The settings `thread_pool.bulk.size` and `thread_pool.bulk.queue_size`
are still supported as fallback settings although you should transition to
`thread_pool.write.size` and `thread_pool.write.queue_size`, respectively. The
fallback settings will be removed in 7.0.0. Additionally, this means that some
APIs (e.g., the node stats API) will now display the name of this thread pool as
`write`. If this change impacts you (e.g., for monitoring that you have in
place) you can start Elasticsearch with the JVM option
`-Des.thread_pool.write.use_bulk_as_display_name=true` to have Elasticsearch
continue to display the name of this thread pool as `bulk`. Elasticsearch will
stop observing this system property in 7.0.0.

[float]
==== Enabling monitoring 

By default when you install {xpack}, monitoring is enabled but data collection
is disabled. To enable data collection, use the new
`xpack.monitoring.collection.enabled` setting. You can update this setting by
using the <<cluster-update-settings,Cluster Update Settings API>>. For more
information, see <<monitoring-settings>>.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adds information about security PR

docs/reference/migration/migrate_6_3.asciidoc, after:

[[breaking-changes-6.3]]
== Breaking changes in 6.3
++++
<titleabbrev>6.3</titleabbrev>
++++

This section discusses the changes that you need to be aware of when migrating
your application to Elasticsearch 6.3.

* <<breaking_63_api_changes>> 
* <<breaking_63_plugins_changes>>
* <<breaking_63_settings_changes>>

See also <<release-highlights>> and <<es-release-notes>>. 

[float]
[[breaking_63_api_changes]]
=== API changes

[float]
==== Suggest stats metrics deprecated

The suggest stats were previously folded into the search on the indices stats
API. As such, the `suggest` metric on the indices stats API has been a synonym
for the `search` metric. In 6.3.0, the `suggest` metric is deprecated in favor
of using `search`.

Similarly, the `suggest` index metric on the `indices` metric on the nodes stats
API has provided a response containing only an empty object since 5.0.0. In
6.3.0 this metric has been deprecated.

[float]
[[breaking_63_packaging_changes]]
=== Packaging changes

Starting with version 6.3, all of the {xpack} features ship with the default 
distribution of {es}. You no longer need to install {xpack} separately. 

[float]
==== Deprecation of the `x-pack` configuration directory
 
In 6.2 and earlier releases, the 
{stack-ov}/security-files.html[security configuration files], such as the 
`log4js.properties`, `role_mapping.yml`, `roles.yml`, `users`, and `users_roles` 
files, were located in an `x-pack` directory within the 
<<config-files-location,config directory>>.  

Starting in 6.3, the security configuration files are located directly in the 
config directory. 

IMPORTANT: If you upgraded to 6.3, your old security configuration files still 
exist in an `x-pack` folder. That path is deprecated, however, and you should 
move your files out of that folder. There is a known problem where the files in 
the old path are disregarded in favor of the files in the new path: 
{pull}/33688[#33688].

Settings such as `files.role_mapping` now default to 
`ES_PATH_CONF/role_mapping.yml`. If you do not want to use the default locations, 
you must update the settings appropriately. See <<security-settings>>. 

[float]
[[breaking_63_plugins_changes]]
=== Plugins changes

[float]
==== GCS Repository plugin

The repository settings `application_name`, `connect_timeout` and `read_timeout`
have been deprecated and must now be specified in the client settings instead.

See {plugins}/repository-gcs-client.html#repository-gcs-client[Google Cloud Storage Client Settings].

[float]
==== Ingest Geoip Plugin

In earlier versions, database files have been stored as gzip compressed files
with the extension `.gz` to save disk space. As a consequence, database files
had to be loaded in memory. Now the default database files that are stored
uncompressed as `.mmdb` files which allows to memory-map them and save heap
memory. Any custom database files must also be stored uncompressed. Consequently,
the `database_file` property in any ingest pipelines that use the Geoip Processor
must refer to the uncompressed database files as well.

[float]
==== Using the plugin installer without a TTY

The Elasticsearch plugin installer (`elasticsearch-plugin install`) would
previously silently accept additional security permissions required by a plugin
if standard input was closed or there was no TTY attached (e.g., `docker exec
<container ID> elasticsearch-plugin install`). This silent accepting of
additional security permissions has been removed. Now, a user must deliberately
accept these permissions either by keeping standard input open and attaching a
TTY (i.e., using interactive mode to accept the permissions), or by passing the
`--batch` flag.

[float]
==== Implementing custom realms with SPI instead of XPackExtension

The legacy `XPackExtension` extension mechanism has been removed and replaced
with an SPI based extension mechanism that is installed and built as an
elasticsearch plugin. For more information about using SPI loaded security extensions in custom realms, see {stack-ov}/custom-realms.html[Integrating with other authentication systems]. 

[float]
[[breaking_63_settings_changes]]
=== Settings changes

[float]
==== Concurrency level of analyze requests

Previously, analyze requests would run on the same thread pool as indexing
requests. The `index` thread pool has been deprecated as it is no longer needed
since indexing requests are internally converted to bulk requests and run on the
`bulk` thread pool. This leaves analyze requests without a home so we added a
small thread pool called the `analyze` thread pool. This thread pool defaults to
having one thread and a queue depth of sixteen requests. This means that
previously analyze requests had a level of concurrency equal to the size of the
`index` thread pool and now they have a level of concurrency of one. For most
users we think this is fine as analyze requests are useful for debugging and so
probably do not see high concurrency. If you are impacted by this you can
increase the size of the thread pool by using the `thread_pool.analyze.size`
setting.

[float]
==== Renaming the bulk thread pool

The `bulk` thread pool has been renamed to the `write` thread pool. This change
was made to reflect the fact that this thread pool is used to execute all write
operations: single-document index/delete/update requests, as well as bulk
requests. The settings `thread_pool.bulk.size` and `thread_pool.bulk.queue_size`
are still supported as fallback settings although you should transition to
`thread_pool.write.size` and `thread_pool.write.queue_size`, respectively. The
fallback settings will be removed in 7.0.0. Additionally, this means that some
APIs (e.g., the node stats API) will now display the name of this thread pool as
`write`. If this change impacts you (e.g., for monitoring that you have in
place) you can start Elasticsearch with the JVM option
`-Des.thread_pool.write.use_bulk_as_display_name=true` to have Elasticsearch
continue to display the name of this thread pool as `bulk`. Elasticsearch will
stop observing this system property in 7.0.0.

[float]
==== Enabling monitoring 

By default when you install {xpack}, monitoring is enabled but data collection
is disabled. To enable data collection, use the new
`xpack.monitoring.collection.enabled` setting. You can update this setting by
using the <<cluster-update-settings,Cluster Update Settings API>>. For more
information, see <<monitoring-settings>>.
