docs/reference/migration/migrate_6_7.asciidoc, before:

[[breaking-changes-6.7]]
== Breaking changes in 6.7
++++
<titleabbrev>6.7</titleabbrev>
++++

This section discusses the changes that you need to be aware of when migrating
your application to Elasticsearch 6.7.

* <<breaking_67_plugin_changes>>
* <<breaking_67_settings_changes>>

See also <<release-highlights>> and <<es-release-notes>>.

[float]
[[breaking_67_plugin_changes]]
=== Plugin changes

[float]
==== `ingest-geoip` and `ingest-user-agent` are no longer distributed as plugins

The `ingest-geoip` and `ingest-user-agent` plugins have been converted to
modules and are now included with all Elasticsearch distributions. Starting with
Elasticsearch 6.7.0, attempting to install or remove these plugins will result
in a no-op. In Elasticsearch 7.0.0, attempting to install or remove these plugins
will result in an error. Additionally, there are two minor breaking changes here:
- `elasticsearch-plugin list` will no longer output `ingest-geoip` nor
  `ingest-user-agent`
- `plugin.mandatory` is no longer compatible with `ingest-geoip` nor
  `ingest-user-agent`


[float]
[[breaking_67_settings_changes]]
=== Settings changes

[float]
==== Disabling memory-mapping

The setting `node.store.allow_mmapfs` has been deprecated. Use
`node.store.allow_mmap` instead.

Commit message:

Deprecate support for internal versioning for concurrency control (#38451)
Relates #38254
Relates #10708

docs/reference/migration/migrate_6_7.asciidoc, after:

[[breaking-changes-6.7]]
== Breaking changes in 6.7
++++
<titleabbrev>6.7</titleabbrev>
++++

This section discusses the changes that you need to be aware of when migrating
your application to Elasticsearch 6.7.

* <<breaking_67_indexing_changes>>
* <<breaking_67_plugin_changes>>
* <<breaking_67_settings_changes>>

See also <<release-highlights>> and <<es-release-notes>>.

[float]
[[breaking_67_indexing_changes]]
=== Indexing changes

[float]
==== Deprecated usage of `internal` versioning for optimistic concurrency control

`internal` version may not uniquely identify a document's version if an indexed document
wasn't fully replicated when a primary fails. As such it is unsafe to use for
optimistic concurrency control, is deprecated and the option will no longer be available
in Elasticsearch 7.0.0. Please use the `if_seq_no` and `if_primary_term` parameters instead.
See <<optimistic-concurrency-control>> for more details.

[float]
[[breaking_67_plugin_changes]]
=== Plugin changes

[float]
==== `ingest-geoip` and `ingest-user-agent` are no longer distributed as plugins

The `ingest-geoip` and `ingest-user-agent` plugins have been converted to
modules and are now included with all Elasticsearch distributions. Starting with
Elasticsearch 6.7.0, attempting to install or remove these plugins will result
in a no-op. In Elasticsearch 7.0.0, attempting to install or remove these plugins
will result in an error. Additionally, there are two minor breaking changes here:
- `elasticsearch-plugin list` will no longer output `ingest-geoip` nor
  `ingest-user-agent`
- `plugin.mandatory` is no longer compatible with `ingest-geoip` nor
  `ingest-user-agent`


[float]
[[breaking_67_settings_changes]]
=== Settings changes

[float]
==== Disabling memory-mapping

The setting `node.store.allow_mmapfs` has been deprecated. Use
`node.store.allow_mmap` instead.
