docs/reference/modules/indices/recovery.asciidoc, before:

[[recovery]]
=== Index recovery settings

Peer recovery syncs data from a primary shard to a new or existing shard copy.

Peer recovery automatically occurs when {es}:

* Recreates a shard lost during node failure
* Relocates a shard to another node due to a cluster rebalance or changes to the
<<modules-cluster, shard allocation settings>>

You can view a list of in-progress and completed recoveries using the
<<cat-recovery, cat recovery API>>.

[discrete]
[[recovery-settings]]
==== Recovery settings

`indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>) Limits total inbound and outbound
recovery traffic for each node. Applies to both peer recoveries as well
as snapshot recoveries (i.e., restores from a snapshot). Defaults to `40mb`
unless the node is a dedicated <<cold-tier, cold>> or
<<frozen-tier, frozen>> node, in which case the default relates to the
total memory available to the node:
+
[options="header"]
|======
|Total memory           | Default recovery rate on cold and frozen nodes
|&le; 4 GB              | 40 MB/s
|> 4 GB and &le; 8 GB   | 60 MB/s
|> 8 GB and &le; 16 GB  | 90 MB/s
|> 16 GB and &le; 32 GB | 125 MB/s
|> 32 GB                | 250 MB/s
|======
+
This limit applies to each node separately. If multiple nodes in a cluster
perform recoveries at the same time, the cluster's total recovery traffic may
exceed this limit.
+
If this limit is too high, ongoing recoveries may consume an excess of bandwidth
and other resources, which can destabilize the cluster.
+
This is a dynamic setting, which means you can set it in each node's
`elasticsearch.yml` config file and you can update it dynamically using the
<<cluster-update-settings,cluster update settings API>>. If you set it
dynamically then the same limit applies on every node in the cluster. If you do
not set it dynamically then you can set a different limit on each node, which is
useful if some of your nodes have better bandwidth than others. For example, if
you are using <<overview-index-lifecycle-management,Index Lifecycle Management>>
then you may be able to give your hot nodes a higher recovery bandwidth limit
than your warm nodes.

[discrete]
==== Expert peer recovery settings
You can use the following _expert_ setting to manage resources for peer
recoveries.

`indices.recovery.max_concurrent_file_chunks`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>, Expert) Number of file chunks sent in
parallel for each recovery. Defaults to `2`.
+
You can increase the value of this setting when the recovery of a single shard
is not reaching the traffic limit set by `indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec`,
up to a maximum of `8`.

`indices.recovery.max_concurrent_operations`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>, Expert) Number of operations sent
in parallel for each recovery. Defaults to `1`.
+
Concurrently replaying operations during recovery can be very resource-intensive
and may interfere with indexing, search, and other activities in your cluster.
Do not increase this setting without carefully verifying that your cluster has
the resources available to handle the extra load that will result.

`indices.recovery.use_snapshots`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>, Expert) Enables snapshot-based peer recoveries.
+
{es} recovers replicas and relocates primary shards using the _peer recovery_
process, which involves constructing a new copy of a shard on the target node.
When `indices.recovery.use_snapshots` is `false` {es} will construct this new
copy by transferring the index data from the current primary. When this setting
is `true` {es} will attempt to copy the index data from a recent snapshot
first, and will only copy data from the primary if it cannot identify a
suitable snapshot.
+
Setting this option to `true` reduces your operating costs if your cluster runs
in an environment where the node-to-node data transfer costs are higher than
the costs of recovering data from a snapshot. It also reduces the amount of
work that the primary must do during a recovery.

Commit message:

Add peer recoveries using snapshot files when possible (#76237)
This commit adds peer recoveries from snapshots. It allows establishing a replica by downloading file data from a snapshot rather than transferring the data from the primary. 

Enabling this feature is done on the repository definition. Repositories having the setting `use_for_peer_recovery=true` will be consulted to find a good snapshot when recovering a shard.

Relates #73496

docs/reference/modules/indices/recovery.asciidoc, after:

[[recovery]]
=== Index recovery settings

Peer recovery syncs data from a primary shard to a new or existing shard copy.

Peer recovery automatically occurs when {es}:

* Recreates a shard lost during node failure
* Relocates a shard to another node due to a cluster rebalance or changes to the
<<modules-cluster, shard allocation settings>>

You can view a list of in-progress and completed recoveries using the
<<cat-recovery, cat recovery API>>.

[discrete]
[[recovery-settings]]
==== Recovery settings

`indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>) Limits total inbound and outbound
recovery traffic for each node. Applies to both peer recoveries as well
as snapshot recoveries (i.e., restores from a snapshot). Defaults to `40mb`
unless the node is a dedicated <<cold-tier, cold>> or
<<frozen-tier, frozen>> node, in which case the default relates to the
total memory available to the node:
+
[options="header"]
|======
|Total memory           | Default recovery rate on cold and frozen nodes
|&le; 4 GB              | 40 MB/s
|> 4 GB and &le; 8 GB   | 60 MB/s
|> 8 GB and &le; 16 GB  | 90 MB/s
|> 16 GB and &le; 32 GB | 125 MB/s
|> 32 GB                | 250 MB/s
|======
+
This limit applies to each node separately. If multiple nodes in a cluster
perform recoveries at the same time, the cluster's total recovery traffic may
exceed this limit.
+
If this limit is too high, ongoing recoveries may consume an excess of bandwidth
and other resources, which can destabilize the cluster.
+
This is a dynamic setting, which means you can set it in each node's
`elasticsearch.yml` config file and you can update it dynamically using the
<<cluster-update-settings,cluster update settings API>>. If you set it
dynamically then the same limit applies on every node in the cluster. If you do
not set it dynamically then you can set a different limit on each node, which is
useful if some of your nodes have better bandwidth than others. For example, if
you are using <<overview-index-lifecycle-management,Index Lifecycle Management>>
then you may be able to give your hot nodes a higher recovery bandwidth limit
than your warm nodes.

[discrete]
==== Expert peer recovery settings
You can use the following _expert_ setting to manage resources for peer
recoveries.

`indices.recovery.max_concurrent_file_chunks`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>, Expert) Number of file chunks sent in
parallel for each recovery. Defaults to `2`.
+
You can increase the value of this setting when the recovery of a single shard
is not reaching the traffic limit set by `indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec`,
up to a maximum of `8`.

`indices.recovery.max_concurrent_operations`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>, Expert) Number of operations sent
in parallel for each recovery. Defaults to `1`.
+
Concurrently replaying operations during recovery can be very resource-intensive
and may interfere with indexing, search, and other activities in your cluster.
Do not increase this setting without carefully verifying that your cluster has
the resources available to handle the extra load that will result.

`indices.recovery.use_snapshots`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>, Expert) Enables snapshot-based peer recoveries.
+
{es} recovers replicas and relocates primary shards using the _peer recovery_
process, which involves constructing a new copy of a shard on the target node.
When `indices.recovery.use_snapshots` is `false` {es} will construct this new
copy by transferring the index data from the current primary. When this setting
is `true` {es} will attempt to copy the index data from a recent snapshot
first, and will only copy data from the primary if it cannot identify a
suitable snapshot. Defaults to `true`.
+
Setting this option to `true` reduces your operating costs if your cluster runs
in an environment where the node-to-node data transfer costs are higher than
the costs of recovering data from a snapshot. It also reduces the amount of
work that the primary must do during a recovery.
+
Additionally, repositories having the setting `use_for_peer_recovery=true`
will be consulted to find a good snapshot when recovering a shard. If none
of the registered repositories have this setting defined, index files will
be recovered from the source node.

`indices.recovery.max_concurrent_snapshot_file_downloads`::
(<<cluster-update-settings,Dynamic>>, Expert) Number of snapshot file downloads requests
sent in parallel to the target node for each recovery. Defaults to `5`.
+
Do not increase this setting without carefully verifying that your cluster has
the resources available to handle the extra load that will result.
