docs/reference/sql/endpoints/cli.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[sql-cli]]
== SQL CLI

Elasticsearch ships with a script to run the SQL CLI in its `bin` directory:

[source,bash]
--------------------------------------------------
$ ./bin/elasticsearch-sql-cli
--------------------------------------------------

The jar containing the SQL CLI is a stand alone Java application and
the scripts just launch it. You can move it around to other machines
without having to install Elasticsearch on them.

You can pass the URL of the Elasticsearch instance to connect to as
the first parameter:

[source,bash]
--------------------------------------------------
$ ./bin/elasticsearch-sql-cli https://some.server:9200
--------------------------------------------------

If security is enabled on your cluster, you can pass the username
and password in the form `username:password@host_name:port`
to the SQL CLI:

[source,bash]
--------------------------------------------------
$ ./bin/elasticsearch-sql-cli https://sql_user:strongpassword@some.server:9200
--------------------------------------------------

Once the CLI is running you can use any <<sql-spec,query>> that
Elasticsearch supports:

[source,sqlcli]
--------------------------------------------------
sql> SELECT * FROM library WHERE page_count > 500 ORDER BY page_count DESC;
     author      |        name        |  page_count   | release_date
-----------------+--------------------+---------------+---------------
Peter F. Hamilton|Pandora's Star      |768            |1078185600000
Vernor Vinge     |A Fire Upon the Deep|613            |707356800000
Frank Herbert    |Dune                |604            |-144720000000
Alastair Reynolds|Revelation Space    |585            |953078400000
James S.A. Corey |Leviathan Wakes     |561            |1306972800000
--------------------------------------------------
// TODO it'd be lovely to be able to assert that this is correct but
// that is probably more work then it is worth right now.

Commit message:

Specify command line to use when running the SQL CLI on a machine where Elasticsearch is not installed

docs/reference/sql/endpoints/cli.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[sql-cli]]
== SQL CLI

Elasticsearch ships with a script to run the SQL CLI in its `bin` directory:

[source,bash]
--------------------------------------------------
$ ./bin/elasticsearch-sql-cli
--------------------------------------------------

You can pass the URL of the Elasticsearch instance to connect to as
the first parameter:

[source,bash]
--------------------------------------------------
$ ./bin/elasticsearch-sql-cli https://some.server:9200
--------------------------------------------------

If security is enabled on your cluster, you can pass the username
and password in the form `username:password@host_name:port`
to the SQL CLI:

[source,bash]
--------------------------------------------------
$ ./bin/elasticsearch-sql-cli https://sql_user:strongpassword@some.server:9200
--------------------------------------------------

Once the CLI is running you can use any <<sql-spec,query>> that
Elasticsearch supports:

[source,sqlcli]
--------------------------------------------------
sql> SELECT * FROM library WHERE page_count > 500 ORDER BY page_count DESC;
     author      |        name        |  page_count   | release_date
-----------------+--------------------+---------------+---------------
Peter F. Hamilton|Pandora's Star      |768            |1078185600000
Vernor Vinge     |A Fire Upon the Deep|613            |707356800000
Frank Herbert    |Dune                |604            |-144720000000
Alastair Reynolds|Revelation Space    |585            |953078400000
James S.A. Corey |Leviathan Wakes     |561            |1306972800000
--------------------------------------------------
// TODO it'd be lovely to be able to assert that this is correct but
// that is probably more work then it is worth right now.

The jar containing the SQL CLI is a stand alone Java application and
the scripts just launch it. You can move it around to other machines
without having to install Elasticsearch on them. Without the already
provided script files, you can use a command similar to the following
to start the SQL CLI. A Java version not earlier than the one used to 
compile the SQL CLI Java files, needs to be installed to be able to run it:

[source,bash]
--------------------------------------------------
$ ./java -cp [PATH_TO_CLI_JAR]/elasticsearch-sql-cli-[VERSION].jar org.elasticsearch.xpack.sql.cli.Cli https://some.server:9200
--------------------------------------------------

The jar name will be different for each Elasticsearch version, thus
the generic `VERSION` specified in the example above. Also, if not running
the command from the folder where the SQL CLI jar resides, you'd have
to provide the full path, as well.
