docs/java-rest/high-level/ml/put-trained-model.asciidoc, before:

--
:api: put-trained-model
:request: PutTrainedModelRequest
:response: PutTrainedModelResponse
--
[role="xpack"]
[id="{upid}-{api}"]
=== Put Trained Model API

Creates a new trained model for inference.
The API accepts a +{request}+ object as a request and returns a +{response}+.

[id="{upid}-{api}-request"]
==== Put Trained Model request

A +{request}+ requires the following argument:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests-file}[{api}-request]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The configuration of the {infer} Trained Model to create

[id="{upid}-{api}-config"]
==== Trained Model configuration

The `TrainedModelConfig` object contains all the details about the trained model
configuration and contains the following arguments:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests-file}[{api}-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The {infer} definition for the model
<2> Optionally, if the {infer} definition is large, you may choose to compress it for transport.
    Do not supply both the compressed and uncompressed definitions.
<3> The unique model id
<4> The input field names for the model definition
<5> Optionally, a human-readable description
<6> Optionally, an object map contain metadata about the model
<7> Optionally, an array of tags to organize the model

include::../execution.asciidoc[]

[id="{upid}-{api}-response"]
==== Response

The returned +{response}+ contains the newly created trained model.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests-file}[{api}-response]
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[ML][Inference] don't return inflated definition when storing trained models (#52573)
When `PUT` is called to store a trained model, it is useful to return the newly create model config. But, it is NOT useful to return the inflated definition.

These definitions can be large and returning the inflated definition causes undo work on the server and client side.

docs/java-rest/high-level/ml/put-trained-model.asciidoc, after:

--
:api: put-trained-model
:request: PutTrainedModelRequest
:response: PutTrainedModelResponse
--
[role="xpack"]
[id="{upid}-{api}"]
=== Put Trained Model API

Creates a new trained model for inference.
The API accepts a +{request}+ object as a request and returns a +{response}+.

[id="{upid}-{api}-request"]
==== Put Trained Model request

A +{request}+ requires the following argument:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests-file}[{api}-request]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The configuration of the {infer} Trained Model to create

[id="{upid}-{api}-config"]
==== Trained Model configuration

The `TrainedModelConfig` object contains all the details about the trained model
configuration and contains the following arguments:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests-file}[{api}-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The {infer} definition for the model
<2> Optionally, if the {infer} definition is large, you may choose to compress it for transport.
    Do not supply both the compressed and uncompressed definitions.
<3> The unique model id
<4> The input field names for the model definition
<5> Optionally, a human-readable description
<6> Optionally, an object map contain metadata about the model
<7> Optionally, an array of tags to organize the model

include::../execution.asciidoc[]

[id="{upid}-{api}-response"]
==== Response

The returned +{response}+ contains the newly created trained model.
The +{response}+ will omit the model definition as a precaution against
streaming large model definitions back to the client.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests-file}[{api}-response]
--------------------------------------------------
