docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/dbvis.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-dbvis]]
=== DbVisualizer

[quote, http://www.dbvis.com/]
____
https://www.dbvis.com/[DbVisualizer] is a database management and analysis tool for all major databases.
____

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* DbVisualizer 10.0.21 or higher
* {es-sql} <<sql-jdbc, JDBC driver>>

==== Add {es} JDBC driver

Add the {es} JDBC driver to DbVisualizer through *Tools* > *Driver Manager*:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-1-driver-manager.png[]

Select *Elasticsearch* driver name from the left sidebar and add the JDBC driver in the files panel through the buttons on the right; if there is no such driver name check the DbVisualizer version or create a new driver entry through *Driver* > *Create Driver*.

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-2-driver.png[]

Once specified, the driver class and its version should be automatically picked up - one can force the refresh through the *Find driver in listed locations* button, the second from the bottom on the right hand side:
 
image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-3-add-driver.png[]

==== Create a new connection

Once the {es} driver is in place, create a new connection:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-4-new-conn.png[]

One can use the wizard or add the settings all at once:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-5-conn-props.png[]

Press *Connect* and the driver version (as that of the cluster) should show up under *Connection Message*.

==== Execute SQL queries

The setup is done. DbVisualizer can be used to run queries against {es} and explore its content:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-6-data.png[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Clean up links from SQL client app pages.

docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/dbvis.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-dbvis]]
=== DbVisualizer

You can use the {es} JDBC driver to access {es} data from DbVisualizer.

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* DbVisualizer 10.0.21 or higher
* {es-sql} <<sql-jdbc, JDBC driver>>

==== Add {es} JDBC driver

Add the {es} JDBC driver to DbVisualizer through *Tools* > *Driver Manager*:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-1-driver-manager.png[]

Select *Elasticsearch* driver name from the left sidebar and add the JDBC driver in the files panel through the buttons on the right; if there is no such driver name check the DbVisualizer version or create a new driver entry through *Driver* > *Create Driver*.

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-2-driver.png[]

Once specified, the driver class and its version should be automatically picked up - one can force the refresh through the *Find driver in listed locations* button, the second from the bottom on the right hand side:
 
image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-3-add-driver.png[]

==== Create a new connection

Once the {es} driver is in place, create a new connection:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-4-new-conn.png[]

One can use the wizard or add the settings all at once:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-5-conn-props.png[]

Press *Connect* and the driver version (as that of the cluster) should show up under *Connection Message*.

==== Execute SQL queries

The setup is done. DbVisualizer can be used to run queries against {es} and explore its content:

image:images/sql/client-apps/dbvis-6-data.png[]
