docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/powerbi.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-powerbi]]
=== Microsoft Power BI Desktop

[quote, https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/what-is-power-bi/]
____
https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/desktop/[Power BI] is a business analytics solution that lets you visualize your data and share
insights across your organization, or embed them in your app or website.
____

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* Microsoft Power BI Desktop 2.63 or higher
* {es-sql} <<sql-odbc, ODBC driver>>
* A preconfigured User or System DSN (see <<dsn-configuration,Configuration>> section on how to configure a DSN).

==== Data loading

First, you'll need to choose ODBC as the source to load data from. Once launched, click on the _Get Data_ button (under _Home_ tab), then
on the _More..._ button at the bottom of the list:

[[apps_pbi_fromodbc1]]
.Get Data / More...
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_fromodbc1.png[]

In the new opened window scroll at the bottom of the _All_ list and select the _ODBC_ entry, then click on the _Connect_ button:

[[apps_pbi_fromodbc2]]
.ODBC / Connect
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_fromodbc2.png[]

This will replace current window with a new _From ODBC_ one, where you'll have to select a previously configured DSN:

[[apps_pbi_dsn]]
.Choose a DSN
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_dsn.png[]

Once connected Power BI will read {es}'s catalog and offer the user a choice of tables (indices) to load data from. Clicking on one of the
tables will load a preview of the data within:

[[apps_pbi_picktable]]
.Pick table to load
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_picktable.png[]

Now tick the chosen table and click on the _Load_ button. Power BI will now load and analyze the data, populating a list with the available
columns. These can now be used to build the desired visualisation:

[[apps_pbi_loaded]]
.Visualize the data
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_loaded.png[]

// vim: set noet fenc=utf-8 ff=dos sts=0 sw=4 ts=4 tw=138 columns=140

Commit message:

[DOCS] Clean up links from SQL client app pages.

docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/powerbi.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-powerbi]]
=== Microsoft Power BI Desktop

You can use the {es} ODBC driver to access {es} data from Microsoft Power BI Desktop.

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* Microsoft Power BI Desktop 2.63 or higher
* {es-sql} <<sql-odbc, ODBC driver>>
* A preconfigured User or System DSN (see <<dsn-configuration,Configuration>> section on how to configure a DSN).

==== Data loading

First, you'll need to choose ODBC as the source to load data from. Once launched, click on the _Get Data_ button (under _Home_ tab), then
on the _More..._ button at the bottom of the list:

[[apps_pbi_fromodbc1]]
.Get Data / More...
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_fromodbc1.png[]

In the new opened window scroll at the bottom of the _All_ list and select the _ODBC_ entry, then click on the _Connect_ button:

[[apps_pbi_fromodbc2]]
.ODBC / Connect
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_fromodbc2.png[]

This will replace current window with a new _From ODBC_ one, where you'll have to select a previously configured DSN:

[[apps_pbi_dsn]]
.Choose a DSN
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_dsn.png[]

Once connected Power BI will read {es}'s catalog and offer the user a choice of tables (indices) to load data from. Clicking on one of the
tables will load a preview of the data within:

[[apps_pbi_picktable]]
.Pick table to load
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_picktable.png[]

Now tick the chosen table and click on the _Load_ button. Power BI will now load and analyze the data, populating a list with the available
columns. These can now be used to build the desired visualisation:

[[apps_pbi_loaded]]
.Visualize the data
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_pbi_loaded.png[]

// vim: set noet fenc=utf-8 ff=dos sts=0 sw=4 ts=4 tw=138 columns=140
