docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/ps1.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-ps1]]
=== Microsoft PowerShell

[quote, https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/powershell-scripting]
____
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/[PowerShell] is a task-based command-line shell and scripting language built on .NET.
____

PowerShell is available on all recent Windows Desktop OSes. It also has embedded ODBC support, thus offering a quick and accessible way to connect to {es}.

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* Microsoft PowerShell
* {es-sql} <<sql-odbc, ODBC driver>>
* A preconfigured User or System DSN (see <<dsn-configuration,Configuration>> section on how to configure a DSN).

==== Writing a script

While putting the following instructions into a script file is not an absolute requirement, doing so will make it easier to extend and
reuse. The following instructions exemplify how to execute a simple SELECT query from an existing index in your {es} instance, using a DSN
configured in advance. Open a new file, `select.ps1`, and place the following instructions in it:

["source","powershell",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------
$connectstring = "DSN=Local Elasticsearch;"
$sql = "SELECT * FROM library"

$conn = New-Object System.Data.Odbc.OdbcConnection($connectstring)
$conn.open()
$cmd = New-Object system.Data.Odbc.OdbcCommand($sql,$conn)
$da = New-Object system.Data.Odbc.OdbcDataAdapter($cmd)
$dt = New-Object system.Data.datatable
$null = $da.fill($dt)
$conn.close()
$dt
--------------------------------------------

Now open a PowerShell shell and simply execute the script:

[[apps_excel_exed]]
.Run SQL in PowerShell
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_ps_exed.png[]


// vim: set noet fenc=utf-8 ff=dos sts=0 sw=4 ts=4 tw=138 columns=140

Commit message:

[DOCS] Clean up links from SQL client app pages.

docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/ps1.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-ps1]]
=== Microsoft PowerShell

You can use the {es} ODBC driver to access {es} data from Microsoft PowerShell.

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* Microsoft PowerShell
* {es-sql} <<sql-odbc, ODBC driver>>
* A preconfigured User or System DSN (see <<dsn-configuration,Configuration>> section on how to configure a DSN).

==== Writing a script

While putting the following instructions into a script file is not an absolute requirement, doing so will make it easier to extend and
reuse. The following instructions exemplify how to execute a simple SELECT query from an existing index in your {es} instance, using a DSN
configured in advance. Open a new file, `select.ps1`, and place the following instructions in it:

["source","powershell",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------
$connectstring = "DSN=Local Elasticsearch;"
$sql = "SELECT * FROM library"

$conn = New-Object System.Data.Odbc.OdbcConnection($connectstring)
$conn.open()
$cmd = New-Object system.Data.Odbc.OdbcCommand($sql,$conn)
$da = New-Object system.Data.Odbc.OdbcDataAdapter($cmd)
$dt = New-Object system.Data.datatable
$null = $da.fill($dt)
$conn.close()
$dt
--------------------------------------------

Now open a PowerShell shell and simply execute the script:

[[apps_excel_exed]]
.Run SQL in PowerShell
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_ps_exed.png[]


// vim: set noet fenc=utf-8 ff=dos sts=0 sw=4 ts=4 tw=138 columns=140
