docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/tableau.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-tableau]]
=== Tableau Desktop

[quote, https://www.tableau.com/products/what-is-tableau]
____
https://www.tableau.com/products/desktop[Tableau] is the most powerful, secure, and flexible end-to-end analytics platform
for your data.
____

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* Tableau 2018 or higher
* {es-sql} <<sql-odbc, ODBC driver>>
* A preconfigured User or System DSN (see <<dsn-configuration,Configuration>> section on how to configure a DSN).

==== Data loading

First, you'll need to choose ODBC as the source to load data from. Once launched, click on the _More..._ menu item and in the expanded
list of connectors, choose _Other Databases (ODBC)_:

[[apps_tableau_fromodbc]]
.ODBC as data source
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_tableau_fromodbc.png[]

In the new connection window that appears, select the previously configured DSN that will connect to the desired {es} instance. Press the
_Connect_ button. In case credentials are needed, a new windows - driver's DSN editor - will be launched and you'll need to provide the
_Username_ and _Password_ in the respective fields. (Note that these will not be stored as part of the DSN, but only remembered for the
duration of the session).
If the connection is successful, the _Connection Attributes_ section of the connection window is populated with the respective details;
press the _Sign In_ button next:

[[apps_tableau_connd]]
.Authenticate and sign in
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_tableau_connd.png[]

In Tableau Desktop's main window then choose the name of {es} instance as the _Database_, select one table that you'd like to load from
the list (click on the magnifying glass icon to have them all shown), drag the table over the work area, then click the _Update Now_
button to load a preview of the table:

[[apps_tableau_loaded]]
.Data loaded
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_tableau_loaded.png[]


// vim: set noet fenc=utf-8 ff=dos sts=0 sw=4 ts=4 tw=138 columns=140

Commit message:

[DOCS] Clean up links from SQL client app pages.

docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/tableau.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-tableau]]
=== Tableau Desktop

You can use the {es} ODBC driver to access {es} data from Tableau Desktop.

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this product, please reach out to its vendor.

==== Prerequisites

* Tableau 2018 or higher
* {es-sql} <<sql-odbc, ODBC driver>>
* A preconfigured User or System DSN (see <<dsn-configuration,Configuration>> section on how to configure a DSN).

==== Data loading

First, you'll need to choose ODBC as the source to load data from. Once launched, click on the _More..._ menu item and in the expanded
list of connectors, choose _Other Databases (ODBC)_:

[[apps_tableau_fromodbc]]
.ODBC as data source
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_tableau_fromodbc.png[]

In the new connection window that appears, select the previously configured DSN that will connect to the desired {es} instance. Press the
_Connect_ button. In case credentials are needed, a new windows - driver's DSN editor - will be launched and you'll need to provide the
_Username_ and _Password_ in the respective fields. (Note that these will not be stored as part of the DSN, but only remembered for the
duration of the session).
If the connection is successful, the _Connection Attributes_ section of the connection window is populated with the respective details;
press the _Sign In_ button next:

[[apps_tableau_connd]]
.Authenticate and sign in
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_tableau_connd.png[]

In Tableau Desktop's main window then choose the name of {es} instance as the _Database_, select one table that you'd like to load from
the list (click on the magnifying glass icon to have them all shown), drag the table over the work area, then click the _Update Now_
button to load a preview of the table:

[[apps_tableau_loaded]]
.Data loaded
image:images/sql/odbc/apps_tableau_loaded.png[]


// vim: set noet fenc=utf-8 ff=dos sts=0 sw=4 ts=4 tw=138 columns=140
