docs/reference/mapping/types/dense-vector.asciidoc, before:

[[dense-vector]]
=== Dense vector datatype

experimental[]

A `dense_vector` field stores dense vectors of float values.
The maximum number of dimensions that can be in a vector should
not exceed 500. The number of dimensions can be
different across documents. A `dense_vector` field is
a single-valued field.

These vectors can be used for document scoring.
For example, a document score can represent a distance between
a given query vector and the indexed document vector.

You index a dense vector as an array of floats.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector"
      },
      "my_text" : {
        "type" : "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT my_index/_doc/1
{
  "my_text" : "text1",
  "my_vector" : [0.5, 10, 6]
}

PUT my_index/_doc/2
{
  "my_text" : "text2",
  "my_vector" : [-0.5, 10, 10, 4]
}

--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Internally, each document's dense vector is encoded as a binary
doc value. Its size in bytes is equal to
`4 * NUMBER_OF_DIMENSIONS`, where `NUMBER_OF_DIMENSIONS` -
number of the vector's dimensions.

Commit message:

Distance measures for dense and sparse vectors
Introduce painless functions of
cosineSimilarity and dotProduct distance
measures for dense and sparse vector fields.

```js
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "cosineSimilarity(params.queryVector, doc['my_dense_vector'].value)",
        "params": {
          "queryVector": [4, 3.4, -1.2]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```js
{
  "query": {
    "script_score": {
      "query": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "script": {
        "source": "cosineSimilaritySparse(params.queryVector, doc['my_sparse_vector'].value)",
        "params": {
          "queryVector": {"2": -0.5, "10" : 111.3, "50": -13.0, "113": 14.8, "4545": -156.0}
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Closes #31615

docs/reference/mapping/types/dense-vector.asciidoc, after:

[[dense-vector]]
=== Dense vector datatype

experimental[]

A `dense_vector` field stores dense vectors of float values.
The maximum number of dimensions that can be in a vector should
not exceed 500. The number of dimensions can be
different across documents. A `dense_vector` field is
a single-valued field.

These vectors can be used for
{ref}/query-dsl-script-score-query.html#vector-functions[document scoring].
For example, a document score can represent a distance between
a given query vector and the indexed document vector.

You index a dense vector as an array of floats.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_vector": {
        "type": "dense_vector"
      },
      "my_text" : {
        "type" : "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT my_index/_doc/1
{
  "my_text" : "text1",
  "my_vector" : [0.5, 10, 6]
}

PUT my_index/_doc/2
{
  "my_text" : "text2",
  "my_vector" : [-0.5, 10, 10, 4]
}

--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Internally, each document's dense vector is encoded as a binary
doc value. Its size in bytes is equal to
`4 * NUMBER_OF_DIMENSIONS`, where `NUMBER_OF_DIMENSIONS` -
number of the vector's dimensions.
