docs/reference/mapping/types/nested.asciidoc, before:

[[nested]]
=== Nested datatype
++++
<titleabbrev>Nested</titleabbrev>
++++

The `nested` type is a specialised version of the <<object,`object`>> datatype
that allows arrays of objects to be indexed in a way that they can be queried 
independently of each other.

==== How arrays of objects are flattened

Arrays of inner <<object,`object` fields>> do not work the way you may expect.
Lucene has no concept of inner objects, so Elasticsearch flattens object
hierarchies into a simple list of field names and values. For instance, the
following document:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index/_doc/1
{
  "group" : "fans",
  "user" : [ <1>
    {
      "first" : "John",
      "last" :  "Smith"
    },
    {
      "first" : "Alice",
      "last" :  "White"
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> The `user` field is dynamically added as a field of type `object`.

would be transformed internally into a document that looks more like this:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "group" :        "fans",
  "user.first" : [ "alice", "john" ],
  "user.last" :  [ "smith", "white" ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

The `user.first` and `user.last` fields are flattened into multi-value fields,
and the association between `alice` and `white` is lost.  This document would
incorrectly match a query for `alice AND smith`:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        { "match": { "user.first": "Alice" }},
        { "match": { "user.last":  "Smith" }}
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]

[[nested-fields-array-objects]]
==== Using `nested` fields for arrays of objects

If you need to index arrays of objects and to maintain the independence of
each object in the array, you should use the `nested` datatype instead of the
<<object,`object`>> datatype.  Internally, nested objects index each object in
the array as a separate hidden document, meaning that each nested object can be
queried independently of the others, with the <<query-dsl-nested-query,`nested` query>>:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "user": {
        "type": "nested" <1>
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT my_index/_doc/1
{
  "group" : "fans",
  "user" : [
    {
      "first" : "John",
      "last" :  "Smith"
    },
    {
      "first" : "Alice",
      "last" :  "White"
    }
  ]
}

GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "nested": {
      "path": "user",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            { "match": { "user.first": "Alice" }},
            { "match": { "user.last":  "Smith" }} <2>
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "nested": {
      "path": "user",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            { "match": { "user.first": "Alice" }},
            { "match": { "user.last":  "White" }} <3>
          ]
        }
      },
      "inner_hits": { <4>
        "highlight": {
          "fields": {
            "user.first": {}
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> The `user` field is mapped as type `nested` instead of type `object`.
<2> This query doesn't match because `Alice` and `Smith` are not in the same nested object.
<3> This query matches because `Alice` and `White` are in the same nested object.
<4> `inner_hits` allow us to highlight the matching nested documents.


Nested documents can be:

* queried with the <<query-dsl-nested-query,`nested`>> query.
* analyzed with the <<search-aggregations-bucket-nested-aggregation,`nested`>>
  and <<search-aggregations-bucket-reverse-nested-aggregation, `reverse_nested`>>
  aggregations.
* sorted with <<nested-sorting,nested sorting>>.
* retrieved and highlighted with <<nested-inner-hits,nested inner hits>>.

[IMPORTANT]
=============================================

Because nested documents are indexed as separate documents, they can only be
accessed  within the scope of the `nested` query, the
`nested`/`reverse_nested` aggregations, or <<nested-inner-hits,nested inner hits>>.

For instance, if a string field within a nested document has
<<index-options,`index_options`>> set to `offsets` to allow use of the postings
during the highlighting, these offsets will not be available during the main highlighting
phase.  Instead, highlighting needs to be performed via
<<nested-inner-hits,nested inner hits>>. The same consideration applies when loading
fields during a search through <<request-body-search-docvalue-fields, `docvalue_fields`>>
or <<request-body-search-stored-fields, `stored_fields`>>.

=============================================

[[nested-params]]
==== Parameters for `nested` fields

The following parameters are accepted by `nested` fields:

[horizontal]
<<dynamic,`dynamic`>>::

    Whether or not new `properties` should be added dynamically to an existing
    nested object.  Accepts `true` (default), `false` and `strict`.

<<properties,`properties`>>::

    The fields within the nested object, which can be of any
    <<mapping-types,datatype>>, including `nested`. New properties
    may be added to an existing nested object.


[float]
=== Limits on `nested` mappings and objects

As described earlier, each nested object is indexed as a separate document under the hood.
Continuing with the example above, if we indexed a single document containing 100 `user` objects,
then 101 Lucene documents would be created -- one for the parent document, and one for each
nested object. Because of the expense associated with `nested` mappings, Elasticsearch puts
settings in place to guard against performance problems:

`index.mapping.nested_fields.limit`::

    The `nested` type should only be used in special cases, when arrays of objects need to be
    queried independently of each other. To safeguard against poorly designed mappings, this setting
    limits the number of unique `nested` types per index. In our example, the `user` mapping would
    count as only 1 towards this limit. Defaults to 50.

`index.mapping.nested_objects.limit`::

    This setting limits the number of nested objects that a single document may contain across all
    `nested` types, in order to prevent out of memory errors when a document contains too many nested
    objects. To illustrate how the setting works, say we added another `nested` type called `comments`
    to our example mapping above. Then for each document, the combined number of `user` and `comment`
    objects it contains must be below the limit. Defaults to 10000.

Additional background on these settings, including information on their default values, can be found
in <<mapping-limit-settings>>.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Document `include_in_*` nested mapping parms
Adds documentation for the `include_in_parent` and `include_in_root`
mapping parameters for the `nested` mapping datatype.

docs/reference/mapping/types/nested.asciidoc, after:

[[nested]]
=== Nested datatype
++++
<titleabbrev>Nested</titleabbrev>
++++

The `nested` type is a specialised version of the <<object,`object`>> datatype
that allows arrays of objects to be indexed in a way that they can be queried 
independently of each other.

==== How arrays of objects are flattened

Arrays of inner <<object,`object` fields>> do not work the way you may expect.
Lucene has no concept of inner objects, so Elasticsearch flattens object
hierarchies into a simple list of field names and values. For instance, the
following document:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index/_doc/1
{
  "group" : "fans",
  "user" : [ <1>
    {
      "first" : "John",
      "last" :  "Smith"
    },
    {
      "first" : "Alice",
      "last" :  "White"
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> The `user` field is dynamically added as a field of type `object`.

would be transformed internally into a document that looks more like this:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "group" :        "fans",
  "user.first" : [ "alice", "john" ],
  "user.last" :  [ "smith", "white" ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

The `user.first` and `user.last` fields are flattened into multi-value fields,
and the association between `alice` and `white` is lost.  This document would
incorrectly match a query for `alice AND smith`:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        { "match": { "user.first": "Alice" }},
        { "match": { "user.last":  "Smith" }}
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]

[[nested-fields-array-objects]]
==== Using `nested` fields for arrays of objects

If you need to index arrays of objects and to maintain the independence of
each object in the array, you should use the `nested` datatype instead of the
<<object,`object`>> datatype.  Internally, nested objects index each object in
the array as a separate hidden document, meaning that each nested object can be
queried independently of the others, with the <<query-dsl-nested-query,`nested` query>>:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "user": {
        "type": "nested" <1>
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT my_index/_doc/1
{
  "group" : "fans",
  "user" : [
    {
      "first" : "John",
      "last" :  "Smith"
    },
    {
      "first" : "Alice",
      "last" :  "White"
    }
  ]
}

GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "nested": {
      "path": "user",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            { "match": { "user.first": "Alice" }},
            { "match": { "user.last":  "Smith" }} <2>
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "nested": {
      "path": "user",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            { "match": { "user.first": "Alice" }},
            { "match": { "user.last":  "White" }} <3>
          ]
        }
      },
      "inner_hits": { <4>
        "highlight": {
          "fields": {
            "user.first": {}
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> The `user` field is mapped as type `nested` instead of type `object`.
<2> This query doesn't match because `Alice` and `Smith` are not in the same nested object.
<3> This query matches because `Alice` and `White` are in the same nested object.
<4> `inner_hits` allow us to highlight the matching nested documents.


Nested documents can be:

* queried with the <<query-dsl-nested-query,`nested`>> query.
* analyzed with the <<search-aggregations-bucket-nested-aggregation,`nested`>>
  and <<search-aggregations-bucket-reverse-nested-aggregation, `reverse_nested`>>
  aggregations.
* sorted with <<nested-sorting,nested sorting>>.
* retrieved and highlighted with <<nested-inner-hits,nested inner hits>>.

[IMPORTANT]
=============================================

Because nested documents are indexed as separate documents, they can only be
accessed  within the scope of the `nested` query, the
`nested`/`reverse_nested` aggregations, or <<nested-inner-hits,nested inner hits>>.

For instance, if a string field within a nested document has
<<index-options,`index_options`>> set to `offsets` to allow use of the postings
during the highlighting, these offsets will not be available during the main highlighting
phase.  Instead, highlighting needs to be performed via
<<nested-inner-hits,nested inner hits>>. The same consideration applies when loading
fields during a search through <<request-body-search-docvalue-fields, `docvalue_fields`>>
or <<request-body-search-stored-fields, `stored_fields`>>.

=============================================

[[nested-params]]
==== Parameters for `nested` fields

The following parameters are accepted by `nested` fields:

<<dynamic,`dynamic`>>::
(Optional, string)
Whether or not new `properties` should be added dynamically to an existing
nested object.  Accepts `true` (default), `false` and `strict`.

<<properties,`properties`>>::
(Optional, object)
The fields within the nested object, which can be of any
<<mapping-types,datatype>>, including `nested`. New properties
may be added to an existing nested object.

`include_in_parent`::
(Optional, boolean)
If `true`, inner objects are indexed as <<object,flat key-value pairs>> for the
parent field _and_ `nested` values. Defaults to `false`.

`include_in_root`::
(Optional, boolean)
If `true`, inner objects are indexed as <<object,flat key-value pairs>> for the
topmost object _and_ `nested` values. Defaults to `false`.


[float]
=== Limits on `nested` mappings and objects

As described earlier, each nested object is indexed as a separate document under the hood.
Continuing with the example above, if we indexed a single document containing 100 `user` objects,
then 101 Lucene documents would be created -- one for the parent document, and one for each
nested object. Because of the expense associated with `nested` mappings, Elasticsearch puts
settings in place to guard against performance problems:

`index.mapping.nested_fields.limit`::

    The `nested` type should only be used in special cases, when arrays of objects need to be
    queried independently of each other. To safeguard against poorly designed mappings, this setting
    limits the number of unique `nested` types per index. In our example, the `user` mapping would
    count as only 1 towards this limit. Defaults to 50.

`index.mapping.nested_objects.limit`::

    This setting limits the number of nested objects that a single document may contain across all
    `nested` types, in order to prevent out of memory errors when a document contains too many nested
    objects. To illustrate how the setting works, say we added another `nested` type called `comments`
    to our example mapping above. Then for each document, the combined number of `user` and `comment`
    objects it contains must be below the limit. Defaults to 10000.

Additional background on these settings, including information on their default values, can be found
in <<mapping-limit-settings>>.
