docs/reference/mapping/types/search-as-you-type.asciidoc, before:

[[search-as-you-type]]
=== Search as you type datatype

experimental[]

The `search_as_you_type` field type is a text-like field that is optimized to
provide out-of-the-box support for queries that serve an as-you-type completion
use case. It creates a series of subfields that are analyzed to index terms
that can be efficiently matched by a query that partially matches the entire
indexed text value. Both prefix completion (i.e matching terms starting at the
beginning of the input) and infix completion (i.e. matching terms at any
position within the input) are supported.

When adding a field of this type to a mapping

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_field": {
        "type": "search_as_you_type"
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

This creates the following fields

[horizontal]

`my_field`::

    Analyzed as configured in the mapping. If an analyzer is not configured,
    the default analyzer for the index is used

`my_field._2gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 2

`my_field._3gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 3

`my_field._index_prefix`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field._3gram` with an edge ngram token filter


Setting a larger `max_shingle_size` in the mapping will create shingle fields
with larger sized shingles, of 2 up to `max_shingle_size`. The
`my_field._index_prefix` subfield will always use the analyzer from the
subfield with the largest shingle size. For example the mapping

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_field": {
        "type": "search_as_you_type",
        "max_shingle_size": 4
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Will create the fields as such. Note how this changes how the
`my_field._index_prefix` field is analyzed

[horizontal]

`my_field`::

    Analyzed as configured in the mapping. If an analyzer is not configured,
    the default analyzer for the index is used

`my_field._2gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 2

`my_field._3gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 3

`my_field._4gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 4

`my_field._index_prefix`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field._4gram` with an edge ngram token filter


The same input text is indexed into each of these fields automatically, with
their differing analysis chains, when an indexed document has a value for the
root field `my_field`.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index/_doc/1?refresh
{
  "my_field": "quick red fox lazy brown dog"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

To search for a document whose value for this field matches a complete shingle,
use a series of match queries

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "and"
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "should": [
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field._2gram": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "or"
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field._3gram": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "or"
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field._4gram": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "or"
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took" : 44,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 0.8630463,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "my_index",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 0.8630463,
        "_source" : {
          "my_field" : "quick red fox lazy brown dog"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 44/"took" : $body.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score" : 0.8630463/"max_score" : $body.hits.max_score/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score" : 0.8630463/"_score" : $body.hits.hits.0._score/]

[[specific-params]]
==== Parameters specific to the `search_as_you_type` field

The following parameters are accepted in a mapping for the `search_as_you_type`
field and are specific to this field type

[horizontal]

`max_shingle_size`::

    The largest shingle size to index the input with and create subfields for,
    creating one subfield for each shingle size between 2 and
    `max_shingle_size`. Accepts integer values between 2 and 4 inclusive. This
    option defaults to 3.


[[general-params]]
==== Parameters of the field type as a text field

The following parameters are accepted in a mapping for the `search_as_you_type`
field due to its nature as a text-like field, and behave similarly to their
behavior when configuring a field of the <<text,`text`>> datatype. Unless
otherwise noted, these options configure the root fields subfields in
the same way.

<<analyzer,`analyzer`>>::

    The <<analysis,analyzer>> which should be used for
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> string fields, both at index-time and at
    search-time (unless overridden by the
    <<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>). Defaults to the default index
    analyzer, or the <<analysis-standard-analyzer,`standard` analyzer>>.

<<mapping-index,`index`>>::

    Should the field be searchable? Accepts `true` (default) or `false`.

<<index-options,`index_options`>>::

    What information should be stored in the index, for search and highlighting
    purposes. Defaults to `positions`.

<<norms,`norms`>>::

    Whether field-length should be taken into account when scoring queries.
    Accepts `true` or `false`. This option configures the root field
    and shingle subfields, where its default is `true`. It does not configure
    the prefix subfield, where it it `false`.

<<mapping-store,`store`>>::

    Whether the field value should be stored and retrievable separately from
    the <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> field. Accepts `true` or `false`
    (default).

<<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time on
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> fields. Defaults to the `analyzer` setting.

<<search-quote-analyzer,`search_quote_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time when a
    phrase is encountered. Defaults to the `search_analyzer` setting.

<<similarity,`similarity`>>::

    Which scoring algorithm or _similarity_ should be used. Defaults
    to `BM25`.

<<term-vector,`term_vector`>>::

    Whether term vectors should be stored for an <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>>
    field. Defaults to `no`. This option configures the root field and shingle
    subfields, but not the prefix subfield.


[[prefix-queries]]
==== Optimization of prefix queries

When making a <<query-dsl-prefix-query,`prefix`>> query to the root field or
any of its subfields, the query will be rewritten to a
<<query-dsl-term-query,`term`>> query on the `._index_prefix` subfield. This
matches more efficiently than is typical of `prefix` queries on text fields,
as prefixes up to a certain length of each shingle are indexed directly as
terms in the `._index_prefix` subfield.

The analyzer of the `._index_prefix` subfield slightly modifies the
shingle-building behavior to also index prefixes of the terms at the end of the
field's value that normally would not be produced as shingles. For example, if
the value `quick red fox` is indexed into a `search_as_you_type` field with
`max_shingle_size` of 3, prefixes for `red fox` and `fox` are also indexed into
the `._index_prefix` subfield even though they do not appear as terms in the
`._3gram` subfield. This allows for completion of all the terms in the field's
input.

Commit message:

wip disable stored fields in subfields

docs/reference/mapping/types/search-as-you-type.asciidoc, after:

[[search-as-you-type]]
=== Search as you type datatype

experimental[]

The `search_as_you_type` field type is a text-like field that is optimized to
provide out-of-the-box support for queries that serve an as-you-type completion
use case. It creates a series of subfields that are analyzed to index terms
that can be efficiently matched by a query that partially matches the entire
indexed text value. Both prefix completion (i.e matching terms starting at the
beginning of the input) and infix completion (i.e. matching terms at any
position within the input) are supported.

When adding a field of this type to a mapping

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_field": {
        "type": "search_as_you_type"
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

This creates the following fields

[horizontal]

`my_field`::

    Analyzed as configured in the mapping. If an analyzer is not configured,
    the default analyzer for the index is used

`my_field._2gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 2

`my_field._3gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 3

`my_field._index_prefix`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field._3gram` with an edge ngram token filter


Setting a larger `max_shingle_size` in the mapping will create shingle fields
with larger sized shingles, of 2 up to `max_shingle_size`. The
`my_field._index_prefix` subfield will always use the analyzer from the
subfield with the largest shingle size. For example the mapping

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_field": {
        "type": "search_as_you_type",
        "max_shingle_size": 4
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Will create the fields as such. Note how this changes how the
`my_field._index_prefix` field is analyzed

[horizontal]

`my_field`::

    Analyzed as configured in the mapping. If an analyzer is not configured,
    the default analyzer for the index is used

`my_field._2gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 2

`my_field._3gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 3

`my_field._4gram`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field` with a shingle token filter of shingle
    size 4

`my_field._index_prefix`::

    Wraps the analyzer of `my_field._4gram` with an edge ngram token filter


The same input text is indexed into each of these fields automatically, with
their differing analysis chains, when an indexed document has a value for the
root field `my_field`.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT my_index/_doc/1?refresh
{
  "my_field": "quick red fox lazy brown dog"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

To search for a document whose value for this field matches a complete shingle,
use a series of match queries

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "and"
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "should": [
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field._2gram": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "or"
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field._3gram": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "or"
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "match": {
            "my_field._4gram": {
              "query": "quick red",
              "operator": "or"
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "took" : 44,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 0.8630463,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "my_index",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 0.8630463,
        "_source" : {
          "my_field" : "quick red fox lazy brown dog"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 44/"took" : $body.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"max_score" : 0.8630463/"max_score" : $body.hits.max_score/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_score" : 0.8630463/"_score" : $body.hits.hits.0._score/]

[[specific-params]]
==== Parameters specific to the `search_as_you_type` field

The following parameters are accepted in a mapping for the `search_as_you_type`
field and are specific to this field type

[horizontal]

`max_shingle_size`::

    The largest shingle size to index the input with and create subfields for,
    creating one subfield for each shingle size between 2 and
    `max_shingle_size`. Accepts integer values between 2 and 4 inclusive. This
    option defaults to 3.


[[general-params]]
==== Parameters of the field type as a text field

The following parameters are accepted in a mapping for the `search_as_you_type`
field due to its nature as a text-like field, and behave similarly to their
behavior when configuring a field of the <<text,`text`>> datatype. Unless
otherwise noted, these options configure the root fields subfields in
the same way.

<<analyzer,`analyzer`>>::

    The <<analysis,analyzer>> which should be used for
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> string fields, both at index-time and at
    search-time (unless overridden by the
    <<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>). Defaults to the default index
    analyzer, or the <<analysis-standard-analyzer,`standard` analyzer>>.

<<mapping-index,`index`>>::

    Should the field be searchable? Accepts `true` (default) or `false`.

<<index-options,`index_options`>>::

    What information should be stored in the index, for search and highlighting
    purposes. Defaults to `positions`.

<<norms,`norms`>>::

    Whether field-length should be taken into account when scoring queries.
    Accepts `true` or `false`. This option configures the root field
    and shingle subfields, where its default is `true`. It does not configure
    the prefix subfield, where it it `false`.

<<mapping-store,`store`>>::

    Whether the field value should be stored and retrievable separately from
    the <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> field. Accepts `true` or `false`
    (default). This option only configures the root field, and does not
    configure any subfields.

<<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time on
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> fields. Defaults to the `analyzer` setting.

<<search-quote-analyzer,`search_quote_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time when a
    phrase is encountered. Defaults to the `search_analyzer` setting.

<<similarity,`similarity`>>::

    Which scoring algorithm or _similarity_ should be used. Defaults
    to `BM25`.

<<term-vector,`term_vector`>>::

    Whether term vectors should be stored for an <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>>
    field. Defaults to `no`. This option configures the root field and shingle
    subfields, but not the prefix subfield.


[[prefix-queries]]
==== Optimization of prefix queries

When making a <<query-dsl-prefix-query,`prefix`>> query to the root field or
any of its subfields, the query will be rewritten to a
<<query-dsl-term-query,`term`>> query on the `._index_prefix` subfield. This
matches more efficiently than is typical of `prefix` queries on text fields,
as prefixes up to a certain length of each shingle are indexed directly as
terms in the `._index_prefix` subfield.

The analyzer of the `._index_prefix` subfield slightly modifies the
shingle-building behavior to also index prefixes of the terms at the end of the
field's value that normally would not be produced as shingles. For example, if
the value `quick red fox` is indexed into a `search_as_you_type` field with
`max_shingle_size` of 3, prefixes for `red fox` and `fox` are also indexed into
the `._index_prefix` subfield even though they do not appear as terms in the
`._3gram` subfield. This allows for completion of all the terms in the field's
input.
