docs/reference/connector/apis/create-connector-api.asciidoc, before:

[[create-connector-api]]
=== Create connector API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create connector</titleabbrev>
++++

preview::[]

Creates a connector.


[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _connector/my-connector
{
  "index_name": "search-google-drive",
  "name": "My Connector",
  "service_type": "google_drive"
}
--------------------------------------------------
////
[source,console]
----
DELETE _connector/my-connector
----
// TEST[continued]
////

[[create-connector-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}
`POST _connector`

`PUT _connector/<connector_id>`


[[create-connector-api-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To sync data using connectors, it's essential to have the Elastic connectors service running.
* The `service_type` parameter should reference an existing connector service type.


[[create-connector-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

Creates a connector document in the internal index and initializes its configuration, filtering, and scheduling with default values. These values can be updated later as needed.

[[create-connector-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<connector_id>`::
(Required, string) Unique identifier of a connector.


[role="child_attributes"]
[[create-connector-api-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`description`::
(Optional, string) The description of the connector.

`index_name`::
(Required, string) The target index for syncing data by the connector.

`name`::
(Optional, string) The name of the connector.

`is_native`::
(Optional, boolean) Indicates if it's a native connector. Defaults to `false`.

`language`::
(Optional, string) Language analyzer for the data. Limited to supported languages.

`service_type`::
(Optional, string) Connector service type. Can reference Elastic-supported connector types or a custom connector type.


[role="child_attributes"]
[[create-connector-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

`id`::
  (string) The ID associated with the connector document. Returned when using a POST request.

`result`::
  (string) The result of the indexing operation, `created` or `updated`. Returned when using a PUT request.

[[create-connector-api-response-codes]]
==== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
Indicates that an existing connector was updated successfully.

`201`::
Indicates that the connector was created successfully.

`400`::
Indicates that the request was malformed.

[[create-connector-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[source,console]
----
PUT _connector/my-connector
{
  "index_name": "search-google-drive",
  "name": "My Connector",
  "description": "My Connector to sync data to Elastic index from Google Drive",
  "service_type": "google_drive",
  "language": "english"
}
----


The API returns the following result:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "result": "created"
}
----
////
[source,console]
----
DELETE _connector/my-connector
----
// TEST[continued]
////

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add contextual info about connectors to API docs

docs/reference/connector/apis/create-connector-api.asciidoc, after:

[[create-connector-api]]
=== Create connector API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create connector</titleabbrev>
++++

preview::[]

Creates an Elastic connector.
Connectors are third-party {es} integrations which can be deployed on {ecloud} or hosted on your own infrastructure:

* *Native connectors* are a managed service on {ecloud}
* *Connector clients* are self-managed on your infrastructure

Find a list of all supported service types in the {enterprise-search-ref}/connectors.html[connectors documentation^].

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _connector/my-connector
{
  "index_name": "search-google-drive",
  "name": "My Connector",
  "service_type": "google_drive"
}
--------------------------------------------------
////
[source,console]
----
DELETE _connector/my-connector
----
// TEST[continued]
////

[[create-connector-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}
`POST _connector`

`PUT _connector/<connector_id>`


[[create-connector-api-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To sync data using connectors, it's essential to have the Elastic connectors service running.
* The `service_type` parameter should reference an existing connector service type.


[[create-connector-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

Creates a connector document in the internal index and initializes its configuration, filtering, and scheduling with default values. These values can be updated later as needed.

[[create-connector-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<connector_id>`::
(Required, string) Unique identifier of a connector.


[role="child_attributes"]
[[create-connector-api-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`description`::
(Optional, string) The description of the connector.

`index_name`::
(Required, string) The target index for syncing data by the connector.

`name`::
(Optional, string) The name of the connector.

`is_native`::
(Optional, boolean) Indicates if it's a native connector. Defaults to `false`.

`language`::
(Optional, string) Language analyzer for the data. Limited to supported languages.

`service_type`::
(Optional, string) Connector service type. Can reference Elastic-supported connector types or a custom connector type.


[role="child_attributes"]
[[create-connector-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

`id`::
  (string) The ID associated with the connector document. Returned when using a POST request.

`result`::
  (string) The result of the indexing operation, `created` or `updated`. Returned when using a PUT request.

[[create-connector-api-response-codes]]
==== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
Indicates that an existing connector was updated successfully.

`201`::
Indicates that the connector was created successfully.

`400`::
Indicates that the request was malformed.

[[create-connector-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[source,console]
----
PUT _connector/my-connector
{
  "index_name": "search-google-drive",
  "name": "My Connector",
  "description": "My Connector to sync data to Elastic index from Google Drive",
  "service_type": "google_drive",
  "language": "english"
}
----


The API returns the following result:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "result": "created"
}
----
////
[source,console]
----
DELETE _connector/my-connector
----
// TEST[continued]
////
