docs/reference/cluster/nodes-hot-threads.asciidoc, before:

[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads]]
=== Nodes hot threads API
++++
<titleabbrev>Nodes hot threads</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns the hot threads on each selected node in the cluster.


[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_nodes/hot_threads` +

`GET /_nodes/<node_id>/hot_threads`

[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the `monitor` or
`manage` <<privileges-list-cluster,cluster privilege>> to use this API.

[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

This API yields a breakdown of the hot threads on each selected node in the
cluster. The output is plain text with a breakdown of each node's top hot 
threads.


[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=node-id]


[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}


`ignore_idle_threads`::
		(Optional, Boolean) If true, known idle threads (e.g. waiting in a socket 
		select, or to get a task from an empty queue) are filtered out. Defaults to 
		true.

`interval`::
		(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>) The interval to do the second 
		sampling of threads. Defaults to `500ms`.
		
`snapshots`::
		(Optional, integer) Number of samples of thread stacktrace. Defaults to 
		`10`.

`threads`::
		(Optional, integer) Specifies the number of hot threads to provide 
		information for. Defaults to `3`.

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]

`type`::
		(Optional, string) The type to sample. Available options are `block`, `cpu`, and 
		`wait`. Defaults to `cpu`.


[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_nodes/hot_threads
GET /_nodes/nodeId1,nodeId2/hot_threads
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Add note on troubleshooting laggy cancellations
Today we document that tasks may not react to cancellations immediately,
but in practice it's surprising to users and kind of a bug if they run
for too long after being cancelled. This commit adds a little extra
detail about the information to collect to troubleshoot such a
situation.

docs/reference/cluster/nodes-hot-threads.asciidoc, after:

[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads]]
=== Nodes hot threads API
++++
<titleabbrev>Nodes hot threads</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns the hot threads on each selected node in the cluster.

[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_nodes/hot_threads` +

`GET /_nodes/<node_id>/hot_threads`

[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the `monitor` or
`manage` <<privileges-list-cluster,cluster privilege>> to use this API.

[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

This API yields a breakdown of the hot threads on each selected node in the
cluster. The output is plain text with a breakdown of each node's top hot 
threads.


[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=node-id]


[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}


`ignore_idle_threads`::
		(Optional, Boolean) If true, known idle threads (e.g. waiting in a socket 
		select, or to get a task from an empty queue) are filtered out. Defaults to 
		true.

`interval`::
		(Optional, <<time-units, time units>>) The interval to do the second 
		sampling of threads. Defaults to `500ms`.
		
`snapshots`::
		(Optional, integer) Number of samples of thread stacktrace. Defaults to 
		`10`.

`threads`::
		(Optional, integer) Specifies the number of hot threads to provide 
                information for. Defaults to `3`. If you are using this API for
                troubleshooting, set this parameter to a large number (e.g.
                `9999`) to get information about all the threads in the system.

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]

`type`::
		(Optional, string) The type to sample. Available options are `block`, `cpu`, and 
		`wait`. Defaults to `cpu`.


[[cluster-nodes-hot-threads-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_nodes/hot_threads
GET /_nodes/nodeId1,nodeId2/hot_threads
--------------------------------------------------
