docs/reference/cluster/remote-info.asciidoc, before:

[[cluster-remote-info]]
=== Remote cluster info API
++++
<titleabbrev>Remote cluster info</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns configured remote cluster information.


[[cluster-remote-info-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_remote/info`


[[cluster-remote-info-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

The cluster remote info API allows you to retrieve all of the configured
remote cluster information. It returns connection and endpoint information keyed 
by the configured remote cluster alias.


[[cluster-remote-info-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

`seeds`::
	The configured initial seed transport addresses of the remote cluster.

`connected`::
	True if there is at least one connection to the remote cluster.

`num_nodes_connected`::
    The number of connected nodes in the remote cluster.

`max_connections_per_cluster`::
	The maximum number of connections maintained for the remote cluster.

`initial_connect_timeout`::
	The initial connect timeout for remote cluster connections.

[[skip-unavailable]]
`skip_unavailable`::
    Whether the remote cluster is skipped in case it is searched through
    a {ccs} request but none of its nodes are available.

Commit message:

Add documentation for remote cluster proxy mode
This is related to #49067.

docs/reference/cluster/remote-info.asciidoc, after:

[[cluster-remote-info]]
=== Remote cluster info API
++++
<titleabbrev>Remote cluster info</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns configured remote cluster information.


[[cluster-remote-info-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_remote/info`


[[cluster-remote-info-api-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

The cluster remote info API allows you to retrieve all of the configured
remote cluster information. It returns connection and endpoint information keyed
by the configured remote cluster alias.


[[cluster-remote-info-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

`mode`::
    The configured connection mode for the remote cluster. Will be `sniff` or
    `proxy`.

`connected`::
	True if there is at least one connection to the remote cluster.

`initial_connect_timeout`::
	The initial connect timeout for remote cluster connections.

[[skip-unavailable]]
`skip_unavailable`::
    Whether the remote cluster is skipped in case it is searched through
    a {ccs} request but none of its nodes are available.

`seeds`::
	The configured initial seed transport addresses of the remote cluster when
	sniff mode is configured.

`num_nodes_connected`::
    The number of connected nodes in the remote cluster when sniff mode is
    configured.

`max_connections_per_cluster`::
	The maximum number of connections maintained for the remote cluster when
	sniff mode is configured.

`address`::
    The configured address for remote connections when proxy mode is configured.

`num_sockets_connected`::
    The number of open socket connections to the remote cluster when proxy mode
    is configured.

`max_socket_connections`::
	The maximum number of socket connections to the remote cluster when proxy
	mode is configured.
