docs/reference/cluster/update-settings.asciidoc, before:

[[cluster-update-settings]]
== Cluster Update Settings

Allows to update cluster wide specific settings. Settings updated can
either be persistent (applied cross restarts) or transient (will not
survive a full cluster restart). Here is an example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_cluster/settings -d '{
    "persistent" : {
        "discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes" : 2
    } 
}' 
--------------------------------------------------

Or:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_cluster/settings -d '{
    "transient" : {
        "discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes" : 2
    } 
}' 
--------------------------------------------------

The cluster responds with the settings updated. So the response for the
last example will be:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "persistent" : {},
    "transient" : {
        "discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes" : "2"
    } 
}' 
--------------------------------------------------

Cluster wide settings can be returned using:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -XGET localhost:9200/_cluster/settings
--------------------------------------------------

There is a specific list of settings that can be updated, those include:

[float]
[[cluster-settings]]
=== Cluster settings

[float]
==== Routing allocation

[float]
===== Awareness

`cluster.routing.allocation.awareness.attributes`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.awareness.force.*`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Balanced Shards
All these values are relative to one another.  The first three are used to
compose a three separate weighting functions into one.  The cluster is balanced
when no allowed action can bring the weights of each node closer together by
more then the fourth setting.  Actions might not be allowed, for instance,
due to forced awareness or allocation filtering.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.shard`::
     Defines the weight factor for shards allocated on a node
     (float). Defaults to `0.45f`.  Raising this raises the tendency to
     equalize the number of shards across all nodes in the cluster.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.index`::
     Defines a factor to the number of shards per index allocated
      on a specific node (float). Defaults to `0.5f`.  Raising this raises the
      tendency to equalize the number of shards per index across all nodes in
      the cluster.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.primary`::
     Defines a weight factor for the number of primaries of a specific index
      allocated on a node (float). `0.05f`.  Raising this raises the tendency
      to equalize the number of primary shards across all nodes in the cluster.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.threshold`::
     Minimal optimization value of operations that should be performed (non
      negative float). Defaults to `1.0f`.  Raising this will cause the cluster
      to be less aggressive about optimizing the shard balance.

[float]
===== Concurrent Rebalance

`cluster.routing.allocation.cluster_concurrent_rebalance`::
       Allow to control how many concurrent rebalancing of shards are 
       allowed cluster wide, and default it to `2` (integer). `-1` for 
       unlimited. See also <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Disable allocation

added[1.0.0.RC1]

All the disable allocation settings have been deprecated in favour for
`cluster.routing.allocation.enable` setting.

`cluster.routing.allocation.disable_allocation`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.disable_replica_allocation`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.disable_new_allocation`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Enable allocation

`cluster.routing.allocation.enable`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Throttling allocation

`cluster.routing.allocation.node_initial_primaries_recoveries`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.node_concurrent_recoveries`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Filter allocation

`cluster.routing.allocation.include.*`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.exclude.*`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.require.*` 
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
==== Metadata

`cluster.blocks.read_only`::
      Have the whole cluster read only (indices do not accept write operations), metadata is not allowed to be modified (create or delete indices).

[float]
==== Discovery

`discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes`::
     See <<modules-discovery-zen>>

`discovery.zen.publish_timeout` added[1.1.0, The setting existed before but wasn't dynamic]::
     See <<modules-discovery-zen>>

[float]
==== Threadpools

`threadpool.*`::
     See <<modules-threadpool>>

[float]
[[cluster-index-settings]]
=== Index settings

[float]
==== Index filter cache

`indices.cache.filter.size`::
     See <<index-modules-cache>>

`indices.cache.filter.expire` (time)::
     See <<index-modules-cache>>

[float]
==== TTL interval

`indices.ttl.interval` (time):: 
    See <<mapping-ttl-field>>

[float]
==== Recovery

`indices.recovery.concurrent_streams`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.file_chunk_size`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.translog_ops`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.translog_size`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.compress`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

[float]
==== Store level throttling

`indices.store.throttle.type`::
      See <<index-modules-store>>

`indices.store.throttle.max_bytes_per_sec`::
      See <<index-modules-store>>

[float]
[[logger]]
=== Logger

Logger values can also be updated by setting `logger.` prefix. More
settings will be allowed to be updated.

[float]
=== Field data circuit breaker

`indices.fielddata.breaker.limit`::
     See <<index-modules-fielddata>>

`indices.fielddata.breaker.overhead`::
     See <<index-modules-fielddata>>

Commit message:

Add shard size allocation balance function
From the docs:
`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.size`::
     Defines a weight factor for the number of similarly sized shards allocated
      on a node (float). Defaults to `0.00f` because it is new and we're not
      yet sure what a good default is.  Raising this raises the tendency to
      equalize the number of similarly sized shards across all nodes in the
      cluster.  "Similarly sized" means that this formula spits out the same
      number:
        size <= 10^7^ bytes ? 0 : floor(log10(size))
      So 1GB and 5GB shards are "similar" and so are 1KB and 40MB.

Side effects:
1.  Enables cluster info collection on all master eligible nodes so that
they can make informed decisions based on shard sizes as soon as they get
elected master.  They don't have to wait for the job to return when they
are elected.
2.  Removes the disabled flag for the cluster info job.  Its now complicate
to know when you can disable it.  Besides, the disk allocation decider is
on by default now and that needs it too.
3.  Reworks BalanceConfigurationTests quite a bit adding a test for the
shard size balance and a test that random balance settings actually converge.
4.  Fixes some of the cluster rebalance docs that were confusing on reread.

Closes #7155

docs/reference/cluster/update-settings.asciidoc, after:

[[cluster-update-settings]]
== Cluster Update Settings

Allows to update cluster wide specific settings. Settings updated can
either be persistent (applied cross restarts) or transient (will not
survive a full cluster restart). Here is an example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_cluster/settings -d '{
    "persistent" : {
        "discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes" : 2
    } 
}' 
--------------------------------------------------

Or:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_cluster/settings -d '{
    "transient" : {
        "discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes" : 2
    } 
}' 
--------------------------------------------------

The cluster responds with the settings updated. So the response for the
last example will be:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "persistent" : {},
    "transient" : {
        "discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes" : "2"
    } 
}' 
--------------------------------------------------

Cluster wide settings can be returned using:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -XGET localhost:9200/_cluster/settings
--------------------------------------------------

There is a specific list of settings that can be updated, those include:

[float]
[[cluster-settings]]
=== Cluster settings

[float]
==== Routing allocation

[float]
===== Awareness

`cluster.routing.allocation.awareness.attributes`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.awareness.force.*`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Balanced Shards
All these values are relative to one another.  The first three are used to
compose a three separate weighting functions into one.  The cluster is balanced
when no allowed action can bring the weights of each node closer together by
more then the fourth setting.  Actions might not be allowed, for instance,
due to forced awareness or allocation filtering.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.shard`::
     Defines the weight factor for shards allocated on a node
     (float). Defaults to `0.45f`.  Raising this raises the tendency to
     equalize the number of shards across all nodes in the cluster.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.index`::
     Defines a factor to the number of shards per index allocated
      on a specific node (float). Defaults to `0.5f`.  Raising this raises the
      tendency to equalize the number of shards in each index across all nodes
      in the cluster.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.primary`::
     Defines a weight factor for the number of primaries of a specific index
      allocated on a node (float). Defaults to `0.05f`.  Raising this raises
      the tendency to equalize the number of primary shards across all nodes in
      the cluster.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.size`::
     Defines a weight factor for the number of similarly sized shards allocated
      on a node (float). Defaults to `0.00f` because it is new and we're not
      yet sure what a good default is.  Raising this raises the tendency to
      equalize the number of similarly sized shards across all nodes in the
      cluster.  "Similarly sized" means that this formula spits out the same
      number:
        size <= 10^7^ bytes ? 0 : floor(log10(size))
      So 1GB and 5GB shards are "similar" and so are 1KB and 40MB.

`cluster.routing.allocation.balance.threshold`::
     Minimal optimization value of operations that should be performed (non
      negative float). Defaults to `1.0f`.  Raising this will cause the cluster
      to be less aggressive about optimizing the shard balance.

[float]
===== Concurrent Rebalance

`cluster.routing.allocation.cluster_concurrent_rebalance`::
       Allow to control how many concurrent rebalancing of shards are 
       allowed cluster wide, and default it to `2` (integer). `-1` for 
       unlimited. See also <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Disable allocation

added[1.0.0.RC1]

All the disable allocation settings have been deprecated in favour for
`cluster.routing.allocation.enable` setting.

`cluster.routing.allocation.disable_allocation`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.disable_replica_allocation`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.disable_new_allocation`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Enable allocation

`cluster.routing.allocation.enable`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Throttling allocation

`cluster.routing.allocation.node_initial_primaries_recoveries`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.node_concurrent_recoveries`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
===== Filter allocation

`cluster.routing.allocation.include.*`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.exclude.*`::
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

`cluster.routing.allocation.require.*` 
     See <<modules-cluster>>.

[float]
==== Metadata

`cluster.blocks.read_only`::
      Have the whole cluster read only (indices do not accept write operations), metadata is not allowed to be modified (create or delete indices).

[float]
==== Discovery

`discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes`::
     See <<modules-discovery-zen>>

`discovery.zen.publish_timeout` added[1.1.0, The setting existed before but wasn't dynamic]::
     See <<modules-discovery-zen>>

[float]
==== Threadpools

`threadpool.*`::
     See <<modules-threadpool>>

[float]
[[cluster-index-settings]]
=== Index settings

[float]
==== Index filter cache

`indices.cache.filter.size`::
     See <<index-modules-cache>>

`indices.cache.filter.expire` (time)::
     See <<index-modules-cache>>

[float]
==== TTL interval

`indices.ttl.interval` (time):: 
    See <<mapping-ttl-field>>

[float]
==== Recovery

`indices.recovery.concurrent_streams`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.file_chunk_size`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.translog_ops`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.translog_size`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.compress`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

`indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec`::
     See <<modules-indices>>

[float]
==== Store level throttling

`indices.store.throttle.type`::
      See <<index-modules-store>>

`indices.store.throttle.max_bytes_per_sec`::
      See <<index-modules-store>>

[float]
[[logger]]
=== Logger

Logger values can also be updated by setting `logger.` prefix. More
settings will be allowed to be updated.

[float]
=== Field data circuit breaker

`indices.fielddata.breaker.limit`::
     See <<index-modules-fielddata>>

`indices.fielddata.breaker.overhead`::
     See <<index-modules-fielddata>>
