docs/reference/alias.asciidoc, before:

[chapter]
[[aliases]]
= Aliases

An alias is a secondary name for a group of data streams or indices. Most {es}
APIs accept an alias in place of a data stream or index name.

You can change the data streams or indices of an alias at any time. If you use
aliases in your application's {es} requests, you can reindex data with no
downtime or changes to your app's code.

[discrete]
[[alias-types]]
=== Alias types

There are two types of aliases:

* A **data stream alias** points to one or more data streams.
* An **index alias** points to one or more indices.

An alias cannot point to both data streams and indices. You also cannot add a
data stream's backing index to an index alias.

[discrete]
[[add-alias]]
=== Add an alias

To add an existing data stream or index to an alias, use the
<<indices-aliases,aliases API>>'s `add` action. If the alias doesn't exist, the
request creates it.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\n/]

The API's `index` and `indices` parameters support wildcards (`*`). Wildcard
patterns that match both data streams and indices return an error.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-*",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\n/]

[discrete]
[[remove-alias]]
=== Remove an alias

To remove an alias, use the aliases API's `remove` action.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "remove": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[continued]

[discrete]
[[multiple-actions]]
=== Multiple actions

You can use the aliases API to perform multiple actions in a single atomic
operation.

// tag::alias-multiple-actions-example[]
For example, the `logs` alias points to a single data stream. The following
request swaps the stream for the alias. During this swap, the `logs` alias has
no downtime and never points to both streams at the same time.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "remove": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    },
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-my_app-default",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT _data_stream\/logs-my_app-default\n/]
// end::alias-multiple-actions-example[]

[discrete]
[[add-alias-at-creation]]
=== Add an alias at index creation

You can also use a <<indices-component-template,component>> or
<<indices-put-template,index template>> to add index or data stream aliases
when they are created.

[source,console]
----
# Component template with index aliases
PUT _component_template/my-aliases
{
  "template": {
    "aliases": {
      "my-alias": {}
    }
  }
}

# Index template with index aliases
PUT _index_template/my-index-template
{
  "index_patterns": [
    "my-index-*"
  ],
  "composed_of": [
    "my-aliases",
    "my-mappings",
    "my-settings"
  ],
  "template": {
    "aliases": {
      "yet-another-alias": {}
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[s/,\n    "my-mappings",\n    "my-settings"//]
// TEST[teardown:data_stream_cleanup]

You can also specify index aliases in <<indices-create-index,create index API>>
requests.

[source,console]
----
# PUT <my-index-{now/d}-000001>
PUT %3Cmy-index-%7Bnow%2Fd%7D-000001%3E
{
  "aliases": {
    "my-alias": {}
  }
}
----

[discrete]
[[view-aliases]]
=== View aliases

To get a list of your cluster's aliases, use the <<indices-get-alias,get alias
API>> with no argument.

[source,console]
----
GET _alias
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT logs-nginx.access-prod\/_alias\/logs\n/]

Specify a data stream or index before `_alias` to view its aliases.

[source,console]
----
GET my-data-stream/_alias
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT logs-nginx.access-prod\/_alias\/logs\n/]
// TEST[s/my-data-stream/logs-nginx.access-prod/]

Specify an alias after `_alias` to view its data streams or indices.

[source,console]
----
GET _alias/logs
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT logs-nginx.access-prod\/_alias\/logs\n/]

[discrete]
[[write-index]]
=== Write index

You can use `is_write_index` to specify a write index or data stream for an
alias. {es} routes any write requests for the alias to this index or data
stream.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    },
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-my_app-default",
        "alias": "logs",
        "is_write_index": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT _data_stream\/logs-my_app-default\n/]

include::{es-repo-dir}/indices/aliases.asciidoc[tag=write-index-defaults]

TIP: We recommend using data streams to store append-only time series data. If
you frequently update or delete existing time series data, use an index alias
with a write index instead. See
<<manage-time-series-data-without-data-streams>>.

[discrete]
[[filter-alias]]
=== Filter an alias

The `filter` option uses <<query-dsl,Query DSL>> to limit the documents an alias
can access.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "my-index-2099.05.06-000001",
        "alias": "my-alias",
        "filter": {
          "bool": {
            "filter": [
              {
                "range": {
                  "@timestamp": {
                    "gte": "now-1d/d",
                    "lt": "now/d"
                  }
                }
              },
              {
                "term": {
                  "user.id": "kimchy"
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index-2099.05.06-000001\n/]

[discrete]
[[alias-routing]]
=== Routing

Use the `routing` option to <<mapping-routing-field,route>> requests for an
alias to a specific shard. This lets you take advantage of
<<shard-request-cache,shard caches>> to speed up searches. Data stream aliases
do not support routing options.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "my-index-2099.05.06-000001",
        "alias": "my-alias",
        "routing": "1"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index-2099.05.06-000001\n/]

Use `index_routing` and `search_routing` to specify different routing values for
indexing and search. If specified, these options overwrite the `routing` value
for their respective operations.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "my-index-2099.05.06-000001",
        "alias": "my-alias",
        "search_routing": "1",
        "index_routing": "2"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index-2099.05.06-000001\n/]

Commit message:

Clarify update operations may be performed on a data stream's backing indices (#105408) (#105416)
These statements come off a little too strongly towards "don't use data streams if you *ever* have updates", but they do support updates when necessary, as long as the backing indices are used.

(cherry picked from commit d95d6adae5fd76d2e7cef620cf963cee55d85fb2)

docs/reference/alias.asciidoc, after:

[chapter]
[[aliases]]
= Aliases

An alias is a secondary name for a group of data streams or indices. Most {es}
APIs accept an alias in place of a data stream or index name.

You can change the data streams or indices of an alias at any time. If you use
aliases in your application's {es} requests, you can reindex data with no
downtime or changes to your app's code.

[discrete]
[[alias-types]]
=== Alias types

There are two types of aliases:

* A **data stream alias** points to one or more data streams.
* An **index alias** points to one or more indices.

An alias cannot point to both data streams and indices. You also cannot add a
data stream's backing index to an index alias.

[discrete]
[[add-alias]]
=== Add an alias

To add an existing data stream or index to an alias, use the
<<indices-aliases,aliases API>>'s `add` action. If the alias doesn't exist, the
request creates it.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\n/]

The API's `index` and `indices` parameters support wildcards (`*`). Wildcard
patterns that match both data streams and indices return an error.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-*",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\n/]

[discrete]
[[remove-alias]]
=== Remove an alias

To remove an alias, use the aliases API's `remove` action.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "remove": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[continued]

[discrete]
[[multiple-actions]]
=== Multiple actions

You can use the aliases API to perform multiple actions in a single atomic
operation.

// tag::alias-multiple-actions-example[]
For example, the `logs` alias points to a single data stream. The following
request swaps the stream for the alias. During this swap, the `logs` alias has
no downtime and never points to both streams at the same time.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "remove": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    },
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-my_app-default",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT _data_stream\/logs-my_app-default\n/]
// end::alias-multiple-actions-example[]

[discrete]
[[add-alias-at-creation]]
=== Add an alias at index creation

You can also use a <<indices-component-template,component>> or
<<indices-put-template,index template>> to add index or data stream aliases
when they are created.

[source,console]
----
# Component template with index aliases
PUT _component_template/my-aliases
{
  "template": {
    "aliases": {
      "my-alias": {}
    }
  }
}

# Index template with index aliases
PUT _index_template/my-index-template
{
  "index_patterns": [
    "my-index-*"
  ],
  "composed_of": [
    "my-aliases",
    "my-mappings",
    "my-settings"
  ],
  "template": {
    "aliases": {
      "yet-another-alias": {}
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[s/,\n    "my-mappings",\n    "my-settings"//]
// TEST[teardown:data_stream_cleanup]

You can also specify index aliases in <<indices-create-index,create index API>>
requests.

[source,console]
----
# PUT <my-index-{now/d}-000001>
PUT %3Cmy-index-%7Bnow%2Fd%7D-000001%3E
{
  "aliases": {
    "my-alias": {}
  }
}
----

[discrete]
[[view-aliases]]
=== View aliases

To get a list of your cluster's aliases, use the <<indices-get-alias,get alias
API>> with no argument.

[source,console]
----
GET _alias
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT logs-nginx.access-prod\/_alias\/logs\n/]

Specify a data stream or index before `_alias` to view its aliases.

[source,console]
----
GET my-data-stream/_alias
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT logs-nginx.access-prod\/_alias\/logs\n/]
// TEST[s/my-data-stream/logs-nginx.access-prod/]

Specify an alias after `_alias` to view its data streams or indices.

[source,console]
----
GET _alias/logs
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT logs-nginx.access-prod\/_alias\/logs\n/]

[discrete]
[[write-index]]
=== Write index

You can use `is_write_index` to specify a write index or data stream for an
alias. {es} routes any write requests for the alias to this index or data
stream.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-nginx.access-prod",
        "alias": "logs"
      }
    },
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "logs-my_app-default",
        "alias": "logs",
        "is_write_index": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT _data_stream\/logs-nginx.access-prod\nPUT _data_stream\/logs-my_app-default\n/]

include::{es-repo-dir}/indices/aliases.asciidoc[tag=write-index-defaults]

TIP: We recommend using data streams to store append-only time series data. If
you need to update or delete existing time series data, you can perform update or delete operations
directly on the data stream backing index. If you frequently send multiple documents using the same
`_id` expecting last-write-wins, you may want to use an index alias with a write index instead. See
<<manage-time-series-data-without-data-streams>>.

[discrete]
[[filter-alias]]
=== Filter an alias

The `filter` option uses <<query-dsl,Query DSL>> to limit the documents an alias
can access.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "my-index-2099.05.06-000001",
        "alias": "my-alias",
        "filter": {
          "bool": {
            "filter": [
              {
                "range": {
                  "@timestamp": {
                    "gte": "now-1d/d",
                    "lt": "now/d"
                  }
                }
              },
              {
                "term": {
                  "user.id": "kimchy"
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index-2099.05.06-000001\n/]

[discrete]
[[alias-routing]]
=== Routing

Use the `routing` option to <<mapping-routing-field,route>> requests for an
alias to a specific shard. This lets you take advantage of
<<shard-request-cache,shard caches>> to speed up searches. Data stream aliases
do not support routing options.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "my-index-2099.05.06-000001",
        "alias": "my-alias",
        "routing": "1"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index-2099.05.06-000001\n/]

Use `index_routing` and `search_routing` to specify different routing values for
indexing and search. If specified, these options overwrite the `routing` value
for their respective operations.

[source,console]
----
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "my-index-2099.05.06-000001",
        "alias": "my-alias",
        "search_routing": "1",
        "index_routing": "2"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TEST[s/^/PUT my-index-2099.05.06-000001\n/]
