docs/reference/analysis.asciidoc, before:

[[analysis]]
= Text analysis

[partintro]
--

_Text analysis_ is the process of converting unstructured text, like
the body of an email or a product description, into a structured format that's
optimized for search.

[float]
[[when-to-configure-analysis]]
=== When to configure text analysis

{es} comes with smart defaults for text analysis. These defaults work well for
most use cases and require no configuration.

If you're happy with your search experience, no further setup is needed;
you can skip the chapters in this section.

However, there are less common cases where configuring text analysis is
worth the effort. If your text searches aren't returning results as expected,
checking your analysis setup can often help. You should also look into analysis
configuration if you're using {es} to:

* Build a search engine
* Mine unstructured data
* Fine-tune search for a specific language
* Perform lexicographic or linguistic research

[float]
[[analysis-toc]]
=== In this section

* <<analysis-overview>>
* <<analysis-concepts>>
* <<configure-text-analysis>>
* <<analysis-analyzers>>
* <<analysis-tokenizers>>
* <<analysis-tokenfilters>>
* <<analysis-charfilters>>
* <<analysis-normalizers>>

--

include::analysis/overview.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/concepts.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/configure-text-analysis.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/analyzers.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/tokenizers.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/tokenfilters.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/charfilters.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/normalizers.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Reword 'When to configure' section

docs/reference/analysis.asciidoc, after:

[[analysis]]
= Text analysis

[partintro]
--

_Text analysis_ is the process of converting unstructured text, like
the body of an email or a product description, into a structured format that's
optimized for search.

[float]
[[when-to-configure-analysis]]
=== When to configure text analysis

{es} performs text analysis when indexing or searching <<text,`text`>> fields.

If your index doesn't contain `text` fields, no further setup is needed; you can
skip the pages in this section.

However, if you use `text` fields or your text searches aren't returning results
as expected, configuring text analysis can often help. You should also look into
analysis configuration if you're using {es} to:

* Build a search engine
* Mine unstructured data
* Fine-tune search for a specific language
* Perform lexicographic or linguistic research

[float]
[[analysis-toc]]
=== In this section

* <<analysis-overview>>
* <<analysis-concepts>>
* <<configure-text-analysis>>
* <<analysis-analyzers>>
* <<analysis-tokenizers>>
* <<analysis-tokenfilters>>
* <<analysis-charfilters>>
* <<analysis-normalizers>>

--

include::analysis/overview.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/concepts.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/configure-text-analysis.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/analyzers.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/tokenizers.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/tokenfilters.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/charfilters.asciidoc[]

include::analysis/normalizers.asciidoc[]
