x-pack/docs/en/security/auditing/forwarding-logs.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[forwarding-audit-logfiles]]
=== Forwarding audit logs to a remote cluster

When you are auditing security events, you can optionally store the logs in an 
{es} index on a remote cluster.  The logs are sent to the remote cluster by 
using the {javaclient}/transport-client.html[transport client]. 

. Configure auditing such that the logs are stored in {es} rolling indices. 
See <<audit-index>>. 

. Establish a connection to the remote cluster by configuring the following 
`xpack.security.audit.index.client` settings: 
+
--
[source, yaml]
--------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.client.hosts: 192.168.0.1, 192.168.0.2 <1> 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.cluster.name: logging-prod <2>
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.security.user: myuser:mypassword <3>
--------------------------------------------------
<1> A list of hosts in the remote cluster. If you are not using the default 
value for the `transport.port` setting on the remote cluster, you must
specify the appropriate port number (prefixed by a colon) after each host. 
<2> The remote cluster name.
<3> A valid user and password, which must have authority to create the 
`.security-audit` index on the remote cluster. 

For more information about these settings, see
{ref}/auditing-settings.html#remote-audit-settings[Remote audit log indexing configuration settings].

--

. If the remote cluster has Transport Layer Security (TLS/SSL) enabled, you 
must specify extra security settings: 

.. {ref}/configuring-tls.html#node-certificates[Generate a node certificate on 
the remote cluster], then copy that certificate to the client. 

.. Enable TLS and specify the information required to access the node certificate.

*** If the signed certificate is in PKCS#12 format, add the following information 
to the `elasticsearch.yml` file:
+
--
[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.security.transport.ssl.enabled: true
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.keystore.path: certs/remote-elastic-certificates.p12 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.truststore.path: certs/remote-elastic-certificates.p12
-----------------------------------------------------------

For more information about these settings, see 
{ref}/security-settings.html#auditing-tls-ssl-settings[Auditing TLS settings].
--

*** If the certificate is in PEM format, add the following information to the
`elasticsearch.yml` file:
+
--
[source, yaml]
--------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.security.transport.ssl.enabled: true
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.key: /home/es/config/audit-client.key 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.certificate: /home/es/config/audit-client.crt 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.certificate_authorities: [ "/home/es/config/remote-ca.crt" ] 
--------------------------------------------------
    
For more information about these settings, see 
{ref}/security-settings.html#auditing-tls-ssl-settings[Auditing TLS settings].    
--

.. If you secured the certificate with a password, add the password to
your {es} keystore:

*** If the signed certificate is in PKCS#12 format, use the following commands:
+
--
[source,shell]
-----------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.keystore.secure_password

bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.truststore.secure_password
-----------------------------------------------------------
--

*** If the certificate is in PEM format, use the following commands:
+
--
[source,shell]
-----------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.secure_key_passphrase
-----------------------------------------------------------
--

. Restart {es}.

When these steps are complete, your audit logs are stored in {es} rolling 
indices on the remote cluster.

Commit message:

Deprecate index audit output type (#37671)
This PR deprecates the index audit output.
In general, the problem with the index audit output is that event indexing
can be slower than the rate with which audit events are generated,
especially during the daily rollovers or the rolling cluster upgrades.
In this situation audit events will be lost which is a terrible failure situation
for an audit system.
Besides of the settings under the `xpack.security.audit.index` namespace, the `xpack.security.audit.outputs` setting has also been deprecated and will be
removed in 7. Although explicitly configuring the logfile output does not touch
any deprecation bits, this setting is made redundant in 7 so this PR deprecates
it as well.

Relates #29881

x-pack/docs/en/security/auditing/forwarding-logs.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[forwarding-audit-logfiles]]
=== Forwarding audit logs to a remote cluster
deprecated[6.7.0, Forwarding audit logs is a feature of the index audit output
type which is deprecated and will be removed in 7.0. All settings under the
`xpack.security.audit.index` namespace are deprecated.]

When you are auditing security events, you can optionally store the logs in an 
{es} index on a remote cluster.  The logs are sent to the remote cluster by 
using the {javaclient}/transport-client.html[transport client]. 

. Configure auditing such that the logs are stored in {es} rolling indices. 
See <<audit-index>>. 

. Establish a connection to the remote cluster by configuring the following 
`xpack.security.audit.index.client` settings: 
+
--
[source, yaml]
--------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.client.hosts: 192.168.0.1, 192.168.0.2 <1> 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.cluster.name: logging-prod <2>
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.security.user: myuser:mypassword <3>
--------------------------------------------------
<1> A list of hosts in the remote cluster. If you are not using the default 
value for the `transport.port` setting on the remote cluster, you must
specify the appropriate port number (prefixed by a colon) after each host. 
<2> The remote cluster name.
<3> A valid user and password, which must have authority to create the 
`.security-audit` index on the remote cluster. 

For more information about these settings, see
{ref}/auditing-settings.html#remote-audit-settings[Remote audit log indexing configuration settings].

--

. If the remote cluster has Transport Layer Security (TLS/SSL) enabled, you 
must specify extra security settings: 

.. {ref}/configuring-tls.html#node-certificates[Generate a node certificate on 
the remote cluster], then copy that certificate to the client. 

.. Enable TLS and specify the information required to access the node certificate.

*** If the signed certificate is in PKCS#12 format, add the following information 
to the `elasticsearch.yml` file:
+
--
[source,yaml]
-----------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.security.transport.ssl.enabled: true
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.keystore.path: certs/remote-elastic-certificates.p12 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.truststore.path: certs/remote-elastic-certificates.p12
-----------------------------------------------------------

For more information about these settings, see 
{ref}/security-settings.html#auditing-tls-ssl-settings[Auditing TLS settings].
--

*** If the certificate is in PEM format, add the following information to the
`elasticsearch.yml` file:
+
--
[source, yaml]
--------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.security.transport.ssl.enabled: true
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.key: /home/es/config/audit-client.key 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.certificate: /home/es/config/audit-client.crt 
xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.certificate_authorities: [ "/home/es/config/remote-ca.crt" ] 
--------------------------------------------------
    
For more information about these settings, see 
{ref}/security-settings.html#auditing-tls-ssl-settings[Auditing TLS settings].    
--

.. If you secured the certificate with a password, add the password to
your {es} keystore:

*** If the signed certificate is in PKCS#12 format, use the following commands:
+
--
[source,shell]
-----------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.keystore.secure_password

bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.truststore.secure_password
-----------------------------------------------------------
--

*** If the certificate is in PEM format, use the following commands:
+
--
[source,shell]
-----------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.audit.index.client.xpack.ssl.secure_key_passphrase
-----------------------------------------------------------
--

. Restart {es}.

When these steps are complete, your audit logs are stored in {es} rolling 
indices on the remote cluster.
