x-pack/docs/en/security/auditing/overview.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[auditing]]
== Auditing security events

You can enable auditing to keep track of security-related events such as
authentication failures and refused connections. Logging these events enables you
to monitor your cluster for suspicious activity and provides evidence in the
event of an attack.

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================
Audit logs are **disabled** by default. To enable this functionality, you
must set `xpack.security.audit.enabled` to `true` in `elasticsearch.yml`.
============================================================================

The {es} {security-features} provide two ways to persist audit logs:

* The <<audit-log-output, `logfile`>> output, which persists events to
  a dedicated `<clustername>_audit.log` file on the host's file system.
  For backwards compatibility reasons, a file named `<clustername>_access.log`
  is also generated.
* The <<audit-index, `index`>> output, which persists events to an Elasticsearch
  index. The audit index can reside on the same cluster, or a separate cluster.

By default, only the `logfile` output is used when enabling auditing,
implicitly outputting to both `<clustername>_audit.log` and `<clustername>_access.log`.
To facilitate browsing and analyzing the events, you can also enable
indexing by setting `xpack.security.audit.outputs` in `elasticsearch.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.outputs: [ index, logfile ]
----------------------------

TIP: If you choose to enable the `index` output type, we strongly recommend that 
you still use the `logfile` output as the official record of events. If the 
target index is unavailable (for example, during a rolling upgrade), the `index` 
output can lose messages.

Commit message:

Deprecate index audit output type (#37671)
This PR deprecates the index audit output.
In general, the problem with the index audit output is that event indexing
can be slower than the rate with which audit events are generated,
especially during the daily rollovers or the rolling cluster upgrades.
In this situation audit events will be lost which is a terrible failure situation
for an audit system.
Besides of the settings under the `xpack.security.audit.index` namespace, the `xpack.security.audit.outputs` setting has also been deprecated and will be
removed in 7. Although explicitly configuring the logfile output does not touch
any deprecation bits, this setting is made redundant in 7 so this PR deprecates
it as well.

Relates #29881

x-pack/docs/en/security/auditing/overview.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[auditing]]
== Auditing security events

You can enable auditing to keep track of security-related events such as
authentication failures and refused connections. Logging these events enables you
to monitor your cluster for suspicious activity and provides evidence in the
event of an attack.

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================
Audit logs are **disabled** by default. To enable this functionality, you
must set `xpack.security.audit.enabled` to `true` in `elasticsearch.yml`.
============================================================================

The {es} {security-features} provide two ways to persist audit logs, but only
the first one is recommended and the other is deprecated:

* The <<audit-log-output, `logfile`>> output, which persists events to
  a dedicated `<clustername>_audit.log` file on the host's file system.
  For backwards compatibility reasons, a file named `<clustername>_access.log`
  is also generated.
* The <<audit-index, `index`>> output, which persists events to an Elasticsearch
  index. The audit index can reside on the same cluster, or a separate cluster.
  deprecated[6.7.0]

By default, only the `logfile` output is used when enabling auditing,
implicitly outputting to both `<clustername>_audit.log` and `<clustername>_access.log`.
To facilitate browsing and analyzing the events, you can also enable
indexing by setting `xpack.security.audit.outputs` in `elasticsearch.yml`: deprecated[6.7.0]

[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.outputs: [ index, logfile ]
----------------------------

TIP: If you choose to enable the `index` output type, we strongly recommend that 
you still use the `logfile` output as the official record of events. If the
target index is unavailable (for example, during a rolling upgrade), the `index` 
output can lose messages. This is one reason why this output type has been deprecated.
