docs/reference/indices/field-usage-stats.asciidoc, before:

[[field-usage-stats]]
=== Field usage stats API
++++
<titleabbrev>Field usage stats</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[]

Returns field usage information for each shard and field
of an index.
Field usage statistics are automatically captured when
queries are running on a cluster. A shard-level search
request that accesses a given field, even if multiple times
during that request, is counted as a single use.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /my-index-000001/_field_usage_stats
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:messages]

[[field-usage-stats-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /<index>/_field_usage_stats`

[[field-usage-stats-api-request-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the `manage`
<<privileges-list-indices,index privilege>> for the target index or index alias.

[[field-usage-stats-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index]

[[field-usage-stats-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=wait_for_active_shards]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]

`fields`::
+
--
(Optional, string)
Comma-separated list or wildcard expressions of fields
to include in the statistics.
--

[role="child_attributes"]
[[field-usage-stats-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}
The response body reports the per-shard usage count of the data structures that back the fields in the index.
A given request will increment each count by a maximum value of 1, even if the request accesses the same field multiple times.

`any`::
(integer)
Denotes any kind of use of the field (e.g. via the _inverted index_, _stored fields_, _doc values_, etc.)
such that any usage is counted once for a given search request.

`inverted_index`::
(object)
The _inverted index_ is enabled by the <<mapping-index,`index`>> mapping parameter and configured by setting the <<index-options,`index_options`>> for the field.
+
.Properties of `inverted_index`:
[%collapsible%open]
====
`terms`::
(integer)
Denotes the usages of _terms_ in the _inverted index_, answering the question "Is this field's inverted index used?".

`postings`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the _posting list_ which contains the document ids for a given term.

`proximity`::
(integer)
Denotes any kind of usage of either _positions_, _offsets_ or _payloads_ in the _inverted index_
such that any usage is counted once for a given search request.

`positions`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _position_ data (order of the term) in the _inverted index_.

`term_frequencies`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the _term frequencies_ in the _inverted index_ which are used to calculate scores.

`offsets`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the _offsets_ in the _inverted index_ which store the start and end character offsets of the terms.

`payloads`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _payloads_ in the _inverted index_,
e.g. via the <<analysis-delimited-payload-tokenfilter, delimited payload token filter>>, or by user-defined analysis components and plugins.

====

`stored_fields`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _stored fields_. These are enabled via the <<mapping-store,`store`>> mapping option,
and accessed by specifying the <<stored-fields, `stored_fields`>> query option.
Note that the <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> and <<mapping-id-field, `_id`>> fields are stored by default and their usage is counted here.

`doc_values`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _doc values_, which are primarily used for sorting and aggregations. These are enabled via the <<doc-values,`doc_values`>> mapping parameter.

`points`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the Lucene _PointValues_ which are the basis of most numeric _field data types_, including <<spatial_datatypes, spacial data types>>, <<number,numbers>>, <<_core_datatypes,dates>>, and more.
These are used by queries/aggregations for ranges, counts, bucketing, min/max, histograms, spacial, etc.

`norms`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of <<norms,_norms_>> which contain index-time boost values used for scoring.

`term_vectors`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of <<term-vector,_term vectors_>> which allow for a document's terms to be retrieved at search time.
Usages include <<highlighting,highlighting>> and the <<query-dsl-mlt-query,More Like This Query>>.

`knn_vectors`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the <<dense-vector,_knn_vectors_>> field type,
primarily used for <<knn-search,k-nearest neighbor (kNN) search>>.

[[field-usage-stats-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

//////////////////////////

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /my-index-000001/_search
{
  "query" : {
    "match" : { "context" : "bar" }
  },
  "aggs": {
    "message_stats": {
      "string_stats": {
        "field": "message.keyword",
        "show_distribution": true
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:messages]

//////////////////////////

The following request retrieves field usage information of index `my-index-000001`
on the currently available shards.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /my-index-000001/_field_usage_stats
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-response]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "_shards": {
        "total": 1,
        "successful": 1,
        "failed": 0
    },
    "my-index-000001": {
        "shards": [
            {
                "tracking_id": "MpOl0QlTQ4SYYhEe6KgJoQ",
                "tracking_started_at_millis": 1625558985010,
                "routing": {
                    "state": "STARTED",
                    "primary": true,
                    "node": "gA6KeeVzQkGURFCUyV-e8Q",
                    "relocating_node": null
                },
                "stats" : {
                    "all_fields": { <1>
                        "any": "6",
                        "inverted_index": {
                            "terms" : 1,
                            "postings" : 1,
                            "proximity" : 1,
                            "positions" : 0,
                            "term_frequencies" : 1,
                            "offsets" : 0,
                            "payloads" : 0
                        },
                        "stored_fields" : 2,
                        "doc_values" : 1,
                        "points" : 0,
                        "norms" : 1,
                        "term_vectors" : 0,
                        "knn_vectors" : 0
                    },
                    "fields": {
                        "_id": { <2>
                            "any" : 1,
                            "inverted_index": {
                                "terms" : 1,
                                "postings" : 1,
                                "proximity" : 1,
                                "positions" : 0,
                                "term_frequencies" : 1,
                                "offsets" : 0,
                                "payloads" : 0
                            },
                            "stored_fields" : 1,
                            "doc_values" : 0,
                            "points" : 0,
                            "norms" : 0,
                            "term_vectors" : 0,
                            "knn_vectors" : 0
                        },
                        "_source": {...},
                        "context": {...},
                        "message.keyword": {...}
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: \{\.\.\.\}/: $body.$_path/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: (\-)?[0-9]+/: $body.$_path/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: "[^"]*"/: $body.$_path/]
<1> Reports the sums of the usage-counts for all fields in the index (on the listed shard).
<2> The field name for which the following usage-counts are reported (on the listed shard).

Commit message:

Update field-usage-stats.asciidoc to clarify counter behaviour
Added additional information to clarify that counter are kept in memory and reset on node restart or shard rellocation.

docs/reference/indices/field-usage-stats.asciidoc, after:

[[field-usage-stats]]
=== Field usage stats API
++++
<titleabbrev>Field usage stats</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[]

Returns field usage information for each shard and field
of an index.
Field usage statistics are automatically captured when
a shard starts running on a cluster node. A shard-level search
request that accesses a given field, even if multiple times
during that request, is counted as a single use. The counters 
are cumulative and kept in memory. Upon node restart, or 
when the shard is moved to a new node, the counters for 
that shard will be reset.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /my-index-000001/_field_usage_stats
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:messages]

[[field-usage-stats-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /<index>/_field_usage_stats`

[[field-usage-stats-api-request-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the `manage`
<<privileges-list-indices,index privilege>> for the target index or index alias.

[[field-usage-stats-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index]

[[field-usage-stats-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=wait_for_active_shards]

include::{es-repo-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]

`fields`::
+
--
(Optional, string)
Comma-separated list or wildcard expressions of fields
to include in the statistics.
--

[role="child_attributes"]
[[field-usage-stats-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}
The response body reports the per-shard usage count of the data structures that back the fields in the index.
A given request will increment each count by a maximum value of 1, even if the request accesses the same field multiple times.

`any`::
(integer)
Denotes any kind of use of the field (e.g. via the _inverted index_, _stored fields_, _doc values_, etc.)
such that any usage is counted once for a given search request.

`inverted_index`::
(object)
The _inverted index_ is enabled by the <<mapping-index,`index`>> mapping parameter and configured by setting the <<index-options,`index_options`>> for the field.
+
.Properties of `inverted_index`:
[%collapsible%open]
====
`terms`::
(integer)
Denotes the usages of _terms_ in the _inverted index_, answering the question "Is this field's inverted index used?".

`postings`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the _posting list_ which contains the document ids for a given term.

`proximity`::
(integer)
Denotes any kind of usage of either _positions_, _offsets_ or _payloads_ in the _inverted index_
such that any usage is counted once for a given search request.

`positions`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _position_ data (order of the term) in the _inverted index_.

`term_frequencies`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the _term frequencies_ in the _inverted index_ which are used to calculate scores.

`offsets`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the _offsets_ in the _inverted index_ which store the start and end character offsets of the terms.

`payloads`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _payloads_ in the _inverted index_,
e.g. via the <<analysis-delimited-payload-tokenfilter, delimited payload token filter>>, or by user-defined analysis components and plugins.

====

`stored_fields`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _stored fields_. These are enabled via the <<mapping-store,`store`>> mapping option,
and accessed by specifying the <<stored-fields, `stored_fields`>> query option.
Note that the <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> and <<mapping-id-field, `_id`>> fields are stored by default and their usage is counted here.

`doc_values`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of _doc values_, which are primarily used for sorting and aggregations. These are enabled via the <<doc-values,`doc_values`>> mapping parameter.

`points`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the Lucene _PointValues_ which are the basis of most numeric _field data types_, including <<spatial_datatypes, spacial data types>>, <<number,numbers>>, <<_core_datatypes,dates>>, and more.
These are used by queries/aggregations for ranges, counts, bucketing, min/max, histograms, spacial, etc.

`norms`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of <<norms,_norms_>> which contain index-time boost values used for scoring.

`term_vectors`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of <<term-vector,_term vectors_>> which allow for a document's terms to be retrieved at search time.
Usages include <<highlighting,highlighting>> and the <<query-dsl-mlt-query,More Like This Query>>.

`knn_vectors`::
(integer)
Denotes the usage of the <<dense-vector,_knn_vectors_>> field type,
primarily used for <<knn-search,k-nearest neighbor (kNN) search>>.

[[field-usage-stats-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

//////////////////////////

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /my-index-000001/_search
{
  "query" : {
    "match" : { "context" : "bar" }
  },
  "aggs": {
    "message_stats": {
      "string_stats": {
        "field": "message.keyword",
        "show_distribution": true
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:messages]

//////////////////////////

The following request retrieves field usage information of index `my-index-000001`
on the currently available shards.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /my-index-000001/_field_usage_stats
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-response]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "_shards": {
        "total": 1,
        "successful": 1,
        "failed": 0
    },
    "my-index-000001": {
        "shards": [
            {
                "tracking_id": "MpOl0QlTQ4SYYhEe6KgJoQ",
                "tracking_started_at_millis": 1625558985010,
                "routing": {
                    "state": "STARTED",
                    "primary": true,
                    "node": "gA6KeeVzQkGURFCUyV-e8Q",
                    "relocating_node": null
                },
                "stats" : {
                    "all_fields": { <1>
                        "any": "6",
                        "inverted_index": {
                            "terms" : 1,
                            "postings" : 1,
                            "proximity" : 1,
                            "positions" : 0,
                            "term_frequencies" : 1,
                            "offsets" : 0,
                            "payloads" : 0
                        },
                        "stored_fields" : 2,
                        "doc_values" : 1,
                        "points" : 0,
                        "norms" : 1,
                        "term_vectors" : 0,
                        "knn_vectors" : 0
                    },
                    "fields": {
                        "_id": { <2>
                            "any" : 1,
                            "inverted_index": {
                                "terms" : 1,
                                "postings" : 1,
                                "proximity" : 1,
                                "positions" : 0,
                                "term_frequencies" : 1,
                                "offsets" : 0,
                                "payloads" : 0
                            },
                            "stored_fields" : 1,
                            "doc_values" : 0,
                            "points" : 0,
                            "norms" : 0,
                            "term_vectors" : 0,
                            "knn_vectors" : 0
                        },
                        "_source": {...},
                        "context": {...},
                        "message.keyword": {...}
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: \{\.\.\.\}/: $body.$_path/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: (\-)?[0-9]+/: $body.$_path/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/: "[^"]*"/: $body.$_path/]
<1> Reports the sums of the usage-counts for all fields in the index (on the listed shard).
<2> The field name for which the following usage-counts are reported (on the listed shard).
